Sharpening the Machete welivesecurity.com/2019/08/05/sharpening-machete-cyberespionage August 5, 2019 Latin America is often overlooked when it comes to persistent threats and groups with politically motivated targets. There is, however, an ongoing case of cyberespionage against high-pro.le organizations that has managed to stay under the radar. The group behind these attacks has stolen gigabytes of con.dential documents, mostly from military organizations. It is still very active at the time of this publication, regularly introducing changes to its malware, infrastructure and spearphishing campaigns. ESET has been tracking a new version of Machete (the group¡¯s Python-based toolset) that was .rst seen in April 2018. While the main functionality of the backdoor remains the same as in previous versions, it has been extended with new features over the course of a year. Targets From the end of March up until the end of May 2019, ESET researchers observed that there were more than 50 victimized computers actively communicating with the C&C server. This amounts to gigabytes of data being uploaded every week. More than half of the compromised computers were in the Venezuelan military forces, whereas the others were related to education, police, and foreign affairs sectors. This extends to other countries in Latin America, with the Ecuadorean military being another organization highly targeted with the Machete malware. The distribution of this malware in these countries is shown in Figure 1. https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/05/sharpening-machete-cyberespionage/ Figure 1. Countries with Machete victims in 2019Malware operators Machete¡¯s operators use effective spearphishing techniques. Their long run of attacks, focused on Latin American countries, has allowed them to collect intelligence and re.ne their tactics over the years. They know their targets, how to blend into regular communications, and which documents are of the most value to steal. Not only does Machete ex.ltrate common of.ce suite documents, but also specialized .le types used by geographic information systems (GIS) software. The group is interested in .les that describe navigation routes and positioning using military grids. The Machete group sends very speci.c emails directly to its victims, and these change from target to target. These emails contain either a link to, or an attachment of, a compressed self-extracting archive that runs the malware and opens a document that serves as a decoy. Figure 2 is a typical PDF .le displayed to a potential victim during compromise. To trick unsuspecting targets, Machete operators use real documents they have previously stolen; Figure st2 is a classi.ed military document that is dated May 21 , 2019, the same day the related .zip .le was .rst sent to targets. ESET has seen more cases like this where stolen documents dated on one particular day were bundled with malware and used on the same day as lures to compromise new victims. Figure 2. Decoy (PDF .le) in one of the Machete downloaders (blurred)The kind of documents used as decoys are sent and received legitimately several times a day by the group¡¯s targets. For example, Radiogramas are documents used for communication in the Venezuelan military forces. Attackers take advantage of that, along with their knowledge of military jargon and etiquette, to craft very convincing phishing emails. Main characteristics The Machete group is very active and has introduced several changes to its malware since a new version was released in April 2018. Previous versions were described by Kaspersky in 2014 and Cylance in 2017. In Figure 3 we show the components for the new version of the Machete malware. Figure 3. Components of Machete The .rst part of the attack consists of a downloader that comes as a self-extracting archive, made with 7z SFX Builder. Once the archive is unpacked by the self-extraction code, the extractor opens a PDF or Microsoft Of.ce .le that serves as a decoy, and then runs the downloader executable from the archive. That executable is another self-extracting .le that contains the actual downloader binary (a py2exe component) and a con.guration .le with the downloader¡¯s target URL as an encrypted string. All download URLs we have seen are at either Dropbox or Google Docs. The .les at these URLs have all been self-extracting (RAR SFX) archives containing encrypted con.guration and py2exehttps://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/05/sharpening-machete-cyberespionage/backdoor components. Since May 2019, however, the Machete operators stopped using The py2exe binaries can be decompiled to obtain Python code. All of the components . downloaders and backdoors . are obfuscated with pyobfuscate. This has been used in previous versions of the malware as well. Figure 4 shows part of one of these obfuscated scripts. Figure 4. Script obfuscated with pyobfuscate Since August 2018, the Machete components have been delivered with an extra layer of obfuscation. The scripts now contain a block of zlib-compressed, base64-encoded text which, after being decoded, produces a script like the one in Figure 4. This .rst layer of obfuscation is produced using pymini.er with the -gzip parameter. Backdoor components Machete¡¯s dropper is a RAR SFX executable. Three py2exe components are dropped: GoogleCrash.exe, Chrome.exe and GoogleUpdate.exe. A single con.guration .le, jer.dll, is dropped, and it contains base64.encoded text that corresponds to AES.encrypted strings. A schema summarizing the components is shown in Figure 5. Figure 5. Backdoor py2exe components of MacheteGoogleCrash.exe is the main component of the malware. It schedules execution of the other two components and creates Windows Task Scheduler tasks to achieve persistence. The Chrome.exe component is responsible for collection of data from the victimized computer. It can: Take screenshots Log keystrokes Access the clipboard AES-encrypt and ex.ltrate documents Detect newly inserted drives and copy .les Execute other binaries downloaded from the C&C server Retrieve speci.c .les from the system Retrieve user pro.le data from several browsers Collect geolocation of victims and information about nearby Wi-Fi networks Perform physical ex.ltration to removable drives The Machete operators are interested in obtaining speci.c .le types from their targets. Apart from Microsoft Of.ce documents, drives are searched for: Backup .les Database .les Cryptographic keys (PGP) OpenOf.ce documents Vector images Files for geographic information systems (topographic maps, navigation routes, etc.) Regarding the geolocation of victims, Chrome.exe collects data about nearby Wi-Fi networks and sends it to the Mozilla Location Service API. In short, this application provides geolocation coordinates when it¡¯s given other sources of data such as Bluetooth beacons, cell towers or Wi-Fi access points. Then the malware takes latitude and longitude coordinates to build a Google Maps URL. Part of the code is shown in Figure 6. Figure 6. Code for geolocationTheadvantageofusingMozillaLocationServiceisthatitpermitsgeolocationwithoutanactualGPS and can be more accurate than other methods. For example, an IP address can be used to obtain an approximate location, but it is not so accurate. On the other hand, if there is available data for the area, Mozilla Location Service can provide information such as in which building the target is located. The GoogleUpdate.exe component is responsible for communicating with the remote C&C server. The con.guration to set the connection is read from the jer.dll .le: domain name, username and password. The principal means of communication for Machete is via FTP, although HTTP communication was implemented as a fallback in 2019. This component uploads encrypted .les to different subdirectories on the C&C server, but it also retrieves speci.c .les that have been put on the server by the Machete operators. This way, the malware can have its con.guration, malicious binaries and .le listings updated, but can also download and execute other binaries. In conclusion The Machete group is operating more strongly than ever, even after researchers have published technical descriptions and indicators of compromise for this malware. ESET has been tracking this threat for months and has observed several changes, sometimes within weeks. At the time of this publication, the latest change introduced six backdoor components, which are no longer py2exe executables. Python scripts for malicious components, an original executable for Python 2.7, and all libraries used are packed into a self-extracting .le. Various artifacts that we have seen in Machete¡¯s code and the underlying infrastructure lead us to think that this is a Spanish-speaking group. The presence of code to ex.ltrate data to removable drives when there is physical access to a compromised computer may indicate that Machete operators could have a presence in one of the targeted countries, although we cannot be certain. A full and comprehensive list of Indicators of Compromise (IoCs) can be found in the full white paper and on GitHub. ESET detects this threat as a variant of Python/Machete. For a detailed analysis of the backdoor, refer to our white paper Machete just got sharper: Venezuelan military under attack. For any inquiries, or to make sample submissions related to the subject, contact us at https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/05/sharpening-machete-cyberespionage/threatintel@eset.com. ESET Research 5 Aug 2019 -11:31AM https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/08/05/sharpening-machete-cyberespionage/ 