Home . Bad Sites .  Desktop, Mobile Phishing Campaign Targets South Korean Websites, StealsCredentials Via Watering Hole Desktop, Mobile Phishing Campaign Targets SouthKorean Websites, Steals Credentials Via WateringHole Posted on:March 28, 2019 at 5:02 am Posted in:Bad Sites, Mobile Author: Joseph C Chen (Fraud Researcher) We discovered a phishing campaign that has compromised at least four South Korean websites . including abusiness page ranked as one of the most visited sites in the country . by injecting fake login forms to stealuser credentials. While we¡¯ve previously seen cybercriminals inject a malicious JavaScript code in thewebsites to load browser exploits or .nancial information skimmers, using the watering hole technique for aphishing campaign is unusual. The campaign, which we labeled ¡°Soula¡± (detected by Trend Micro asTrojan.HTML.PHISH.TIAOOHDW), collects information via a spoofed login screen of one of the country¡¯sleading search engines that pops up over the original webpage. It sends the logged credentials to theattackers¡¯ server even without accurate data con.rmation, leading us to think that the cybercriminals are atresearch and information-gathering stage. Routine Figure 1. Soula¡¯s attack chain. We traced the initial JavaScript injection done on the compromised websites on March 14. The injected scriptpro.les the website¡¯s visitors and loads the phishing forms on top of the main pages. It scans the HTTPreferer header string and checks if it contains keywords related to popular search engines and social mediasites to authenticate that the visitor is real. Since the HTTP referer identi.es the address webpage of thesource to the requested page, this check makes it easier to identify the visitor as a real user if the requestcomes from one, as well as .lter out bot crawlers or threat engine scanners. The script then scans for the HTTP User-Agent header for strings such as iPhone, iPad, iPod, iOS and Android to identify the device used by the user as desktop or mobile, which allows it to deliver the respectivephishing forms to the victim. Mobile users will see the fake login form pop-up only after clicking any buttonon the compromised websites. To mask the malicious routine, it only enables the pop-up to appear after thesixth time the victim visits the websites, setting a cookie to count the number of visits. The cookie is also setto expire after two hours since the last pop-up. Figure 2. Injected script to check HTTP Referer and HTTP User-Agent. If the device has none of the strings listed, Soula assumes that the user is visiting the website using a desktopcomputer. Users will see the fake login form directly on top of the compromised webpage, asking the user toinput their username and password before they can continue visiting the site. The user information is directlysent to the attackers¡¯ servers. To prevent attack suspicions from the website, the phishing script sets a browsercookie to the devices that received the phishing forms that enables the fake login to expire 12 hours after theinitial interaction. We noted that the comments were set in Simpli.ed Chinese, and used Cloud.are to protect their domains andhide their real IP addresses. We contacted Cloud.are after identifying this attack, but while they immediatelyremoved the malicious domain from their service, the campaign did not stop. In fact, the campaign furtherenhanced its detection evasion features. The attackers added obfuscation to the JavaScript code injected intothe compromised websites and moved the scripts and phishing page to a compromised web server to avoiddetection and prevent removal of their domain. The websites are no longer compromised at the time ofpublishing. Figure 3. Comments in Simpli.ed Chinese. Figure 4. The original script injected in the compromised website vs. the injected script after obfuscation. Conclusion Considering that one of the compromised websites are among the country¡¯s top 300 most-visited sites, andthat the search engine hosts a variety of services for its South Korean customers as a trusted site, Soula is asigni.cant threat to both enterprises and users as it exposes user credentials on a number of platforms.Further, the content string it searches for and connects to may indicate cybercriminals¡¯ possible plans todevelop this to a bigger campaign that could affect more people worldwide. While this technique can be more dif.cult to trace compared to socially engineered phishing attacks, endpointusers can still protect themselves by enabling a multi-layered defense system that allows detection, scanningand blocking of malicious URLs and pop-ups. Users should also enable additional authentication measuressuch as 2FA whenever possible. Security administrators are advised to download updates as soon as patchesare available from legitimate vendors, and enable Content Security Policy to prevent unauthorized access anduse of exploits for remotely injected scripts. Trend Micro solutions Trend Microþ Deep Discoveryþ Trend Microþ User Protection Solution Trojan.HTML.PHISH.TIAO Indicators of Compromise  SHA256  Descriptio n  Detection  03ab41336ff260ec2410ac2704467676284df86  Soula  44befce5a0b40773cc570286a  phishingscript hash  29447d09a76f2a7982562a4386529d0af26cd75  Soula  6671fd7173d518a34717c2aae  phishingscript hash  OHDW 7034c01be6c94ce2d42bbc3c197d0f9678ccb0fc Soula phishingc6ba6d0484d6bcf859a6d774 script hash b2bc1df018abd4ebc2e2f68fbae09a55bc381736 Soula phishing97171507f8cfef9e7ec39978 script hash URLs hxxps://oauth2[.]space/ Phishing domain hxxps://oauth20[.]xyz/ Phishing domain 