Trend Micro About TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog Mac Backdoor Linked to Lazarus Targets KoreanUsers Posted on:November 20, 2019 at 4:41 am Posted in:Malware, Targeted Attacks Author: Trend Micro By Gabrielle Joyce Mabutas Criminal interest in MacOS continues to grow, with malware authors churning out more threats that targetusers of the popular OS. Case in point: A new variant of a Mac backdoor (detected by Trend Micro asBackdoor.MacOS.NUKESPED.A) attributed to the cybercriminal group Lazarus, which was observedtargeting Korean users with a macro-embedded Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Similarities to an earlier Lazarus iteration We analyzed a malicious sample .rst discovered by Twitter user cyberwar_15, and found that it used anExcel document with an embedded macro, which is similar to a previous attack by the Lazarus group. Figure 1. The spreadsheet displays a fairly known psychological test (similar to one found here); clicking onthe smiley image on the top left shows a different response depending on the user¡¯s answer. However, unlike the previous attack that contains a different routine based on the OS the spreadsheet isrunning on, the macro in this .le will just run a PowerShell script that connects to three C&C servers set upby the group: Figure 2. The macro .le connects to hxxps[:]//crabbedly[.]club/board[.]php,hxxps[:]//craypot[.]live/board[.]php, and hxxps[:]//indagator[.]club/board[.]php. Figure 3. Comparison of SentinelOne¡¯s code snippet of the malicious macro used in the abovementionedprevious attack (left) and the code snippet of the recently discovered one (right). The latter shows that it no longer performs any speci.c action if it runs on a Mac platform. The ¡°#If Mac Then¡± MacOS-speci.c attackdoes not start with malicious macros this time. Mac app bundle contains malicious and legitimate Flash Players Apart from the analyzed sample, @cyberwar_15, as well as Qianxin Technology, were also able to source anin-the-wild Mac app bundle suspected to be involved in the attack since it shares similar C&C servers withthe malicious spreadsheets. Figure 4. Mac app bundle inside a sample found in the wild However, this is only a decoy since the actual Adobe Flash Player is contained as a hidden Mach-O .le. Thebundle contains two Flash Player .les: a legitimate version and a malicious version(Trojan.MacOS.NUKESPED.B). The app will run the smaller-sized Flash Player as its main executable,which is the malicious version that only poses as a ¡°Flash Player¡± by name. It also runs the legitimate FlashPlayer to hide its actual malicious routine. Figure 5. The bundle contains two Flash Player .les ¡ª one legitimate version and one malicious version. Figure 6. A closer look at the bundle revealed that this Flash Player app was developed by someone namedOleg Krasilnikov, who has no relation to Adobe Inc. When running the Mac app, the malicious Flash Player will run the legitimate one to play a decoy SWFvideo. Figure 7. The SWF video, which plays a Korean song in the background, shows a collection of pictures. Our own analysis of the sample revealed that while the video is playing, the malicious Flash Player createsanother hidden .le (Backdoor.MacOS.NUKESPED.A) in the following path: ~/.FlashUpdateCheck. Figure 8. The malicious Flash Player creates a hidden .le at ~/.FlashUpdateCheck while the legitimate FlashPlayer plays a video. Note: The symbol (~) is equivalent to the path of the current user. Subsequently, a persistence mechanism for this hidden .le is installed through dropped PLIST .le~/Library/Launchagents/com.adobe.macromedia.plist. Figure 9. Code snippet of ~/Library/Launchagents/com.adobe.macromedia.plist being dropped. The hidden.le ~/.FlashUpdateCheck is set as its autorun target. Further inspection shows that the hidden .le ~/.FlashUpdateCheck acts as the dropped Powershell script-equivalent of the Macro-embedded document. We have identi.ed functions related to its C&Ccommunication with the following servers: Figure 10. Listed C&C servers located in the _DATA segment of the hidden .le The variant¡¯s backdoor functions To trigger the backdoor functions of Backdoor.MacOS.NUKESPED.A, it must .rst try to establish aconnection with the abovementioned servers, craypot[.]live being the .rst in order. Upon successfulconnection, it would continue to its actual backdoor routine. Figure 11. In this routine, the .le would evaluate the server¡¯s response and perform speci.c functions basedon the received command number. Figure 12. Disassembled pseudocode for backdoor functions 11, 12, and 14 Figure 13. Disassembled pseudocode for backdoor functions 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, and 25 Switch case backdoor Functioncommand 2 Set Sleep 3 Terminate Process 11 Get Host Information Check Current Backdoor12, 14 Con.guration Update C2 and Backdoor15 Con.guration 18, 19 Execute Shell command 20 Upload File 21 Download File 24, 25 Execute Response Directly Table 1. The complete backdoor functions of Backdoor.MacOS.NUKESPED.A Figure 14. The MacOS hidden .le has backdoor functions that are similar to those of the executed hiddenPowerShell script in the Excel spreadsheet sample (for example, the command 11 for both is the GetHostInfofunction). Conclusion Unlike Lazarus¡¯ earlier method, which used macros to download a backdoor Mac .le, the samples weanalyzed reveal that this attack type uses an app with a decoy while running the malicious routine to separatethe entire Mac attack chain. Cybercriminal groups such as Lazarus are expanding their scope of attack through different platforms.  The Lazarus group¡¯s shift from using a single cross-platform method for starting an attack chain to a more OS-speci.c crafted variant is something to take note of ¡ª and something we should expect on future related cases. Security recommendations To avoid attacks involving Backdoor.MacOS.NUKESPED.A, users should only download apps from of.cialsources. This simple practice minimizes the chances of downloading a malicious app. Users can also bene.tfrom security solutions such as Trend Micro Home Security for Mac, which provides comprehensive securityand multi-device protection against cyberthreats. Enterprises, for their part, should take advantage of Trend Micro¡¯s Smart Protection Suites with XGenþ security, which infuses high-.delity machine learning into a blend of threat protection techniques to eliminatesecurity gaps across any user activity or endpoint. Indicators of Compromise (IoCs) Files SHA256s Detection Names d91c233b2f1177357387c29d92bd3f29fab7b90760e59a893a0f4 Trojan.MacOS.NUKESPE Album.app 47ef2cb4715 D.B 735365ef9aa6cca946cfef9a4b85f68e7f9f03011da0cf5f5ab517a Trojan.MacOS.NUKESPE Flash Player 381e40d02 D.B .FlashUpdateChe 6f7a5f1d52d3bfc6f175bf2bbb665e4bd99b0453e2d2e27712fe9 Backdoor.MacOS.NUKE 11/21/2019 Mac Backdoor Linked to Lazarus Targets Korean Users - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog ck b71c55962dc SPED.A 