APT trends report Q3 2020
securelist.com/apt-trends-report-q3-2020/99204
For more than three years, the Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) at Kasperskyhas been publishing quarterly summaries of advanced persistent threat (APT) activity. Thesummaries are based on our threat intelligence research and provide a representativesnapshot of what we have published and discussed in greater detail in our private APTreports. They are designed to highlight the significant events and findings that we feel peopleshould be aware of.
This is our latest installment, focusing on activities that we observed during Q3 2020.
Readers who would like to learn more about our intelligence reports or request moreinformation on a specific report are encouraged to contact intelreports@kaspersky.com.
The most remarkable findings
We have already partly documented the activities of DeathStalker, a unique threat group thatseems to focus mainly on law firms and companies operating in the financial sector. Thegroup’s interest in gathering sensitive business information leads us to believe thatDeathStalker is a group of mercenaries offering hacking-for-hire services, or acting as aninformation broker in financial circles. The activities of this threat actor first came to ourattention through a PowerShell-based implant called Powersing. This quarter, we unraveledthe threads of DeathStalker’s LNK-based Powersing intrusion workflow. While there isnothing groundbreaking in the whole toolset, we believe defenders can gain a lot of value byunderstanding the underpinnings of a modern, albeit low-tech, infection chain used by asuccessful threat actor. DeathStalker continues to develop and use this implant, using tacticsthat have mostly been identical since 2018, while making greater efforts to evade detection.In August, our public report of DeathStalker’s activities summarized the three scriptinglanguage-based toolchains used by the group – Powersing, Janicab and Evilnum.
Following our initial private report on Evilnum, we detected a new batch of implants in lateJune 2020, showing interesting changes in the (so far) quite static modus operandi ofDeathStalker. For instance, the malware directly connects to a C2 server using an embeddedIP address or domain name, as opposed to previous variants where it made use of at leasttwo dead drop resolvers (DDRs) or web services, such as forums and code sharing platforms,to fetch the real C2 IP address or domain. Interestingly, for this campaign the attackersdidn’t limit themselves merely to sending spear-phishing emails but actively engaged victimsthrough multiple emails, persuading them to open the decoy, to increase the chance ofcompromise. Furthermore, aside from using Python-based implants throughout theintrusion cycle, in both new and old variants, this was the first time that we had seen theactor dropping PE binaries as intermediate stages to load Evilnum, while using advancedtechniques to evade and bypass security products.
We also found another intricate, low-tech implant that we attribute to DeathStalker withmedium confidence. The delivery workflow uses a Microsoft Word document and drops apreviously unknown PowerShell implant that relies on DNS over HTTPS (DoH) as a C2channel. We dubbed this implant PowerPepper.
During a recent investigation of a targeted campaign, we found a UEFI firmware imagecontaining rogue components that drop previously unknown malware to disk. Our analysisshowed that the revealed firmware modules were based on a known bootkit named Vector-EDK, and the dropped malware is a downloader for further components. By pivoting onunique traits of the malware, we uncovered a range of similar samples from our telemetrythat have been used against diplomatic targets since 2017 and have different infectionvectors. While the business logic of most is identical, we could see that some had additionalfeatures or differed in implementation. Due to this, we infer that the bulk of samplesoriginate from a bigger framework that we have dubbed MosaicRegressor. Code artefacts insome of the framework’s components, and overlaps in C2 infrastructure used during thecampaign, suggest that a Chinese-speaking actor is behind these attacks, possibly one thathas connections to groups using the Winnti backdoor. The targets, diplomatic institutionsand NGOs in Asia, Europe and Africa, all appear to be connected in some way to NorthKorea.
Europe
Since publishing our initial report on WellMess (see our APT trends report Q2 2020), theUK National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) has released a joint technical advisory, along withCanadian and US governments, on the most recent activity involving WellMess. Specifically,all three governments attribute the use of this malware targeting COVID-19 vaccine researchto The Dukes (aka APT29 and Cozy Bear). The advisory also details two other pieces ofmalware, SOREFANG and WellMail, that were used during this activity. Given the directpublic statement on attribution, new details provided in the advisory, as well as newinformation discovered since our initial investigation, we published our report to serve as asupplement to our previous reporting on this threat actor. While the publication of the NCSCadvisory has increased general public awareness on the malware used in these recent attacks,the attribution statements made by all three governments provided no clear evidence forother researchers to pivot on for confirmation. For this reason, we are currently unable tomodify our original statement; and we still assess that the WellMess activity has beenconducted by a previously unknown threat actor. We will continue to monitor for newactivity and adjust this statement in the future if new evidence is uncovered.
Russian-speaking activity
In summer, we uncovered a previously unknown multimodule C++ toolset used in highlytargeted industrial espionage attacks dating back to 2018. So far, we have seen no similaritieswith known malicious activity regarding code, infrastructure or TTPs. To date, we considerthis toolset and the actor behind it to be new. The malware authors named the toolset MT3,and based on this abbreviation we have named the toolset MontysThree. The malware isconfigured to search for specific document types, including those stored on removablemedia. It contains natural language artefacts of correct Russian and a configuration that seekdirectories that exist only in Cyrilic version of Windows, while presenting some false flagartefacts suggesting a Chinese-speaking origin. The malware uses legitimate cloud servicessuch as Google, Microsoft and Dropbox for C2 communications.
Chinese-speaking activity
Earlier this year, we discovered an active and previously unknown stealthy implant dubbedMoriya in the networks of regional inter-governmental organizations in Asia and Africa. Thistool was used to control public facing servers in those organizations by establishing a covertchannel with a C2 server and passing shell commands and their outputs to the C2. Thiscapability is facilitated using a Windows kernel mode driver. Use of the tool is part of anongoing campaign that we have named TunnelSnake. The rootkit was detected on thetargeted machines in May, with activity dating back as early as November 2019, persisting innetworks for several months following the initial infection. We found another tool showingsignificant code overlaps with this rootkit, suggesting that the developers have been activesince at least 2018. Since neither rootkit nor other lateral movement tools that accompaniedit during the campaign relied on hard-coded C2 servers, we could gain only partial visibilityinto the attacker’s infrastructure. That said, the bulk of detected tools, apart from Moriya,consisted of both proprietary and well-known pieces of malware that were previously used byChinese-speaking threat actors, giving a clue to the attacker’s origin.
PlugX continues to be effectively and heavily used across Southeast and East Asia, and alsoAfrica, with some minimal use in Europe. The PlugX codebase has been in use by multipleChinese-speaking APT groups, including HoneyMyte, Cycldek and LuckyMouse.Government agencies, NGOs and IT service organizations seem to be consistent targets.While the new USB spreading capability is opportunistically pushing the malwarethroughout networks, compromised MSSPs/IT service organizations appear to be a potentialvector of targeted delivery, with CobaltStrike installer packages pushed to multiple systemsfor initial PlugX installation. Based on our visibility, the majority of activity in the lastquarter appears to be in Mongolia, Vietnam and Myanmar. The number of systems in thesecountries dealing with PlugX in 2020 is at the very least in the thousands.
We discovered an ongoing campaign, dating back to May, utilizing a new version of theOkrum backdoor, attributed to Ke3chang. This updated version of Okrum uses anAuthenticode-signed Windows Defender binary using a unique side-loading technique. Theattackers used steganography to conceal the main payload in the Defender executable whilekeeping its digital signature valid, reducing the chance of detection. We haven’t previouslyseen this method being used in the wild for malicious purposes. We have observed oneaffected victim, a telecoms company located in Europe.
On September 16, the US Department of Justice released three indictments associated withhackers allegedly connected with APT41 and other intrusion sets tracked as Barium, Winnti,Wicked Panda and Wicked Spider. In addition, two Malaysian nationals were also arrestedon September 14, in Sitiawan (Malaysia), for “conspiring to profit from computer intrusionstargeting the video game industry”, following cooperation between the US DoJ and theMalaysian government, including the Attorney General’s Chambers of Malaysia and theRoyal Malaysia Police. The first indictment alleges that the defendants set up an elite “whitehat” network security company, called Chengdu 404 Network Technology Co, Ltd. (akaChengdu Si Lingsi Network Technology Co., Ltd.), and under its guise, engaged in computerintrusions targeting hundreds of companies around the world. According to the indictment,they “carried out their hacking using specialized malware, such as malware that cyber-security experts named ‘PlugX/Fast’, ‘Winnti/Pasteboy’, ‘Shadowpad’, ‘Barlaiy/Poison Plug’and ‘Crosswalk/ProxIP'”. The indictments contain several indirect IoCs, which allowed us toconnect these intrusions to Operation ShadowPad and Operation ShadowHammer, twomassive supply-chain attacks discovered and investigated by Kaspersky in recent years.
Middle East
In June, we observed new activity by the MuddyWater APT group, involving use of a new setof tools that constitute a multistage framework for loading malware modules. Somecomponents of the framework leverage code to communicate with C2s identical to code weobserved in the MoriAgent malware earlier this year. For this reason, we decided to dub thenew framework MementoMori. The purpose of the new framework is to facilitate executionof further in-memory PowerShell or DLL modules. We detected high-profile victims based inTurkey, Egypt and Azerbaijan.
Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
In May, we found new samples belonging to the Dtrack family. The first sample, namedValefor, is an updated version of the Dtrack RAT containing a new feature enabling theattacker to execute more types of payload. The second sample is a keylogger called Camiowhich is an updated version of its keylogger. This new version updates the loggedinformation and its storage mechanism. We observed signs indicating that these malwareprograms were tailored for specific victims. At the time of our research our telemetryrevealed victims located in Japan.
We have been tracking LODEINFO, fileless malware used in targeted attacks since lastDecember. During this time, we observed several versions as the authors were developing themalware. In May, we detected version v0.3.6 targeting diplomatic organizations located inJapan. Shortly after that, we detected v0.3.8 as well. Our investigation revealed how theattackers operate during the lateral movement stage: after obtaining the desired data, theattackers wipe their traces. Our private report included a technical analysis of theLODEINFO malware and the attack sequence in the victim’s network, to disclose the actor’stactics and methods.
While tracking Transparent Tribe activity, we discovered an interesting tool used by this APTthreat actor: the server component used to manage CrimsonRAT bots. We found differentversions of this software, allowing us to look at the malware from the perspective of theattackers. It shows that the main purpose of this tool is file stealing, given its functionalitiesfor exploring the remote file system and collecting files using specific filters. TransparentTribe (aka PROJECTM and MYTHIC LEOPARD) is a very prolific APT group that hasincreased its activities in recent months. We reported the launch of a new wide-rangingcampaign that uses the CrimsonRAT tool where we were able to set up and analyze the servercomponent and saw the use of the USBWorm component for the first time; we also found anAndroid implant used to target military personnel in India. This discovery also confirmsmuch of the information already discovered during previous investigations; and it alsoconfirms that CrimsonRAT is still under active development.
In April, we discovered a new malware strain that we named CRAT, based on the build pathand internal file name. The malware was spread using a weaponized Hangul document aswell as a Trojanized application and strategic web compromise. Since its discovery the full-featured backdoor has quickly evolved, diversifying into several components. A downloaderdelivers CRAT to profile victims, followed by next-stage orchestrator malware namedSecondCrat: this orchestrator loads various plugins for espionage, including keylogging,screen capturing and clipboard stealing. During our investigation, we found several weakconnections with ScarCruft and Lazarus: we discovered that several debugging messagesinside the malware have similar patterns to ScarCruft malware, as well as some code patternsand the naming of the Lazarus C2 infrastructure.
In June, we observed a new set of malicious Android downloaders which, according to ourtelemetry, have been actively used in the wild since at least December 2019; and have beenused in a campaign targeting victims almost exclusively in Pakistan. Its authors used theKotlin programming language and Firebase messaging system for the downloader, whichmimics Chat Lite, Kashmir News Service and other legitimate regional Android applications.A report by the National Telecom & Information Technology Security Board (NTISB) fromJanuary describes malware sharing the same C2s and spoofing the same legitimate apps.According to this publication, targets were Pakistani military bodies, and the attackers usedWhatsApp messages, SMS, emails and social media as the initial infection vectors. Our owntelemetry shows that this malware also spreads through Telegram messenger. The analysis ofthe initial set of downloaders allowed us to find an additional set of Trojans that we believeare strongly related, as they use the package name mentioned in the downloaders and focuson the same targets. These new samples have strong code similarity with artefacts previouslyattributed to Origami Elephant.
In mid-July, we observed a Southeast Asian government organization targeted by anunknown threat actor with a malicious ZIP package containing a multilayered malicious RARexecutable package. In one of the incidents, the package was themed around COVID-19containment. We believe that the same organization was probably the same target of agovernment web server watering-hole, compromised in early July and serving a highlysimilar malicious LNK. Much like other campaigns against particular countries that we haveseen in the past, these adversaries are taking a long-term, multipronged approach tocompromising target systems without utilizing zero-day exploits. Notably, another group(probably OceanLotus) used a similar Telegram delivery technique with its malware implantsagainst the same government targets within a month or so of the COVID-19-themedmalicious LNK, in addition to its use of Cobalt Strike.
In May 2020, Kaspersky technologies prevented an attack using a malicious script forInternet Explorer against a South Korean company. Closer analysis revealed that the attackused a previously unknown full chain that consisted of two zero-day exploits: a Remote CodeExecution exploit for Internet Explorer and an Elevation of Privilege exploit for Windows.Unlike a previous full chain that we discovered, used in Operation WizardOpium (you canread more here and here), the new full chain targeted the latest builds of Windows 10, andour tests demonstrated reliable exploitation of Internet Explorer 11 and Windows 10 build18363 x64. On June 8, we reported our discoveries to Microsoft, who confirmed thevulnerabilities. At the time of our report, the security team at Microsoft had already prepareda patch for vulnerability CVE-2020-0986 that was used in the zero-day Elevation of Privilegeexploit; but before our discovery, the exploitability of this vulnerability had been consideredless likely. The patch for CVE-2020-0986 was released on June 9. Microsoft assigned CVE-2020-1380 to a use-after-free vulnerability in JScript and the patch for this was released onAugust 11. We are calling this and related attacks Operation PowerFall. Currently, we areunable to establish a definitive link with any known threat actor, but due to similarities withpreviously discovered exploits we believe that DarkHotel may be behind this attack.
On July 22, we came across a suspicious archive file that was uploaded to VirusTotal from anItalian source. The file seemed to be a triage consisting of malicious scripts, access logs,malicious document files and several screenshots related to suspicious file detections fromsecurity solutions. After looking into these malicious document files, we identified that theyare related to a Lazarus group campaign that we reported in June. This campaign, dubbedDeathNote, targeted the automobile industry and individuals in the academic field using luredocuments containing aerospace and defense-related job descriptions. We are confident thatthese documents are related to a recently reported attack on an Israeli defense company. Wehave uncovered webshell scripts, C2 server scripts and malicious documents, identifiedseveral victims connected to the compromised C2 server, as well as uncovering the methodused to access the C2 server.
We have observed an ongoing Sidewinder campaign that started in February, using fivedifferent malware types. The group made changes to its final payloads and continues totarget government, diplomatic and military entities using current themes, such as COVID-19,in its spear-phishing efforts. While the infection mechanism remains the same as before,including the group’s exploit of choice (CVE-2017-1182) and use of the DotNetToJScript toolto deploy the final payloads, we found that the actor also used ZIP archives containing aMicrosoft compiled HTML Help file to download the last-stage payload. In addition to theexisting .NET-based implant, which we call SystemApp, the threat actor added JSOrchestrator, the Rover/Scout backdoor and modified versions of AsyncRAT, warzoneRATto its arsenal.
Other interesting discoveries
Attribution is difficult at the best of times, and sometimes it’s not possible at all. Whileinvestigating an ongoing campaign, we discovered a new Android implant undergoingdevelopment, with no clear link to any previously known Android malware. The malware isable to monitor and steal call logs, SMS, audio, video and non-media files, as well asidentifying information about the infected device. It also implements an interesting featureto collect information on network routes and topology obtained using the “traceroute”command as well as using local ARP caches. During this investigation we uncovered a clusterof similar Android infostealer implants, with one example being obfuscated. We also foundolder Android malware that more closely resembles a backdoor, with traces of it in the wilddating back to August 2019.
In April, Cisco Talos described the activities of an unknown actor targeting Azerbaijan’sgovernment and energy sector using new malware called PoetRAT. In collaboration withKaspersky ICS CERT, we identified supplementary samples of associated malware anddocuments with broader targeting of multiple universities, government and industrialorganizations as well as entities in the energy sector in Azerbaijan. The campaign started inearly November 2019; and the attackers switched off the infrastructure immediatelyfollowing publication of the Cisco Talos report. Since then, no new related documents orPoetRAT samples have been discovered. We observed a small overlap in victimology withTurla, but since there is no technically sound proof of relation between them, and we haven’tbeen able to attribute this new set of activity to any other previously known actor, we namedit Obsidian Gargoyle.
Final thoughts
The TTPs of some threat actors remain fairly consistent over time (such as using hot topicssuch (COVID-19) to entice users to download and execute malicious attachments sent inspear-phishing emails), while other groups reinvent themselves, developing new toolsets andwidening their scope of activities, for example, to include new platforms. And while somethreat actors develop very sophisticated tools, for example, MosiacRegressor UEFI implant,others have great success with basic TTPs. Our regular quarterly reviews are intended tohighlight the key developments of APT groups.
Here are the main trends that we’ve seen in Q3 2020:
Geo-politics continues to drive the development of many APT campaigns, as seen inrecent months in the activities of Transparent Tribe, Sidewinder, Origami Elephant andMosaicRegressor, and in the ‘naming and shaming’ of various threat actors by theNCSC and the US Department of Justice.
Organizations in the financial sector also continue to attract attention: the activities ofthe mercenary group DeathStalker is a recent example.
We continue to observe the use of mobile implants in APT attacks with recent examplesincluding Transparent Tribe and Origami Elephant.
While APT threat actors remain active across the globe, recent hotspots of activity havebeen Southeast Asia, the Middle East and various regions affected by the activities ofChinese-speaking APT groups.
Unsurprisingly, we continue to see COVID-19-themed attacks – this quarter theyincluded WellMess and Sidewinder.
Among the most interesting APT campaigns this quarter were DeathStalker andMosaicRegressor: the former underlining the fact that APT groups can achieve theiraims without developing highly sophisticated tools; the latter representing the leading-edge in malware development.

As always, we would note that our reports are the product of our visibility into the threatlandscape. However, it should be borne in mind that, while we strive to continually improve,there is always the possibility that other sophisticated attacks may fly under our radar.



  

