
Cybersecurity threatscape 
Q1 2020 
ptsecurity.com 

-
-



About the research 
In this quarter's report, Positive Technologies shares information on the most important and emerging IT security threats. Information is drawn from our own expertise, outcomes of numerous investigations, and data from authoritative sources. 
In our view, the majority of cyberattacks are not made public due to reputational risks. The result is that even organizations that investigate incidents and analyze activity by hacker groups are unable to perform a precise count. This research is conducted in order to draw the attention of companies and ordinary individuals who care about the state of information security to the key motives and methods of cyberattacks, as well as to highlight the main trends in the changing cyberthreat landscape. 
In this report, every mass attack (where the attackers send out a phishing email to 
many addresses, for instance) was considered as one incident. Terms used in this 
report: 
A cyberthreat is a combination of factors and circumstances that create the risk of information security compromise. We look at cyberthreats in terms of the actions of malefactors in cyberspace who attempt to breach an information system in order to steal money or data, or with other intentions potentially causing harm to government, business, or individuals. Attacker actions may be directed against the target company's IT infrastructure, workstations, mobile devices, other equipment, or at people as a factor in cyberspace. 
A cyberattack consists of unauthorized actions targeting information systems and their users by cybercriminals leveraging techniques and software to obtain access to information, impair the normal functioning or availability of systems, or to steal, alter, or delete information. 
A mass attack is a cyberattack against a wide range of companies or individuals. In a mass attack, attackers may not restrict themselves to a single industry, or may even ignore the industries of their targets entirely—their objective is to compromise as many victims as they can. 
A targeted attack is a cyberattack targeting a specific company, a certain industry, or a limited number of individuals. A targeted attack usually involves reconnaissance to gather information about the target. 
An APT attack (advanced persistent threat attack) is a well-organized and well-
planned multistage targeted attack. APT attacks are performed by criminal groups (APT groups) consisting of highly skilled people. Because of this, APT groups have significant financial resources and technical capabilities. 
An attack target is the target of unauthorized actions by cybercriminals. For instance, this could be web resources, computers, servers, network equipment, mobile devices, or the IoT. People can be an attack target too, if the attackers use social engineering. 
Attack methods are the set of techniques used by attackers to achieve their goal. 
Hacking means exploitation of vulnerabilities and security flaws to gain access to resources or information. For greater granularity, some hacking methods have been placed in separate categories. For instance, bruteforcing credentials to accessible services is considered separately from exploitation of vulnerabilities in web applications. 

About Positive Technologies For 18 years, Positive Technologies has been creating innovative solutions for information security. We develop products and services to detect, verify, and neutralize the real-world business risks associated with corporate IT infrastructure. Our technologies are backed by years of research experience and the expertise of world-class cybersecurity experts. 
ptsecurity.com 
pt@ptsecurity.com 


Over 2,000 companies in 30 countries trust us to keep them safe. facebook.com/PositiveTechnologies 
facebook.com/PHDays 
Follow us on social media (LinkedIn, Twitter) and the News section at ptsecurity.com. 
Cybersecurity_threatscape-2020-Q1_A4.ENG.0004.01. 



