




Activity Group 


Two purposes of an activity group: 
Framework to answer analytic questions requiring a breadth of activity knowledge 

The development of mitigation strategies with an intended effect broader than activity threads 







needs and operations 



Why Activity Groups?  To Solve Analytic Problems 

What is the Analytic Problem 
• 
Activity grouping is used to solve a number of problems. 

• 
These problems generally require deduction and inference based on a common set of features (i.e., feature vector). 

• 
These problems are generally distinct enough to require a different feature vector for each problem. 

• 
For instance, the feature vector which would group events and threads by likely adversary (e.g., attribution) would not always suffice to group events to discover common malware authors/developers. 

• 
The analytic problem must first be defined. 


• 
Trending: How has an adversary’s activity changed over time and what is the current vector to infer future change? 

• 
Intent Deduction: What is the intent of the adversary? 

• 
Attribution Deduction: Which events and threads are likely conducted by the same adversary? 

• 
Adversary Capabilities and Infrastructure: What is the complete set of observed capabilities and infrastructure of the adversary? 

• 
Cross-Capability Identification: Which capabilities have been used by multiple adversaries? 

• 
Adversary Campaign Knowledge Gap Identification: What are the organization’s knowledge gaps across an adversary’s campaign? 











Why can’ 
The simple answer: it correlate activity consistently within a 10 person team let alone across a variety of organizations. 
The complex answer: correlation and classification is a complex analytic problem which requires us to share the same grouping function and feature vector. 






Active Target Geography 
Infection Vector 
Persistence Mechanism ICS Impact 
Europe 
Phishing w/PDF, Watering Hole, Trojanized Softare 
KARAGANY Malware 
OPC-focused Malware Family 
North America 
Phishing w/Doc 
Various Malware and Backdoors 
Survey and Screenshots via Malware 
Mid 2017 -? 
USA UK Germany 
Phishing w/Doc, Watering Hole 
Create User Accounts, Credential Harvesting 
Survey and Screenshots vis System Tools 








Final Points 

strategic action 



