Cybersecurity at the National Security Agency  www.nsa.gov/cybersecurity  @NSACyber 
WELCOME 
Building on its information assurance legacy, the National Security Agency (NSA) created a Cybersecurity Directorate in October of 2019 to prevent and eradicate threats to our nation’s most sensitive systems and critical infrastructure, with an initial focus on the Defense Industrial Base and its service providers. 
The new directorate integrated NSA’s threat intelligence, vulnerability analysis, cryptographic knowledge, defensive operations, and diverse technical expertise into one outcome-oriented, public-facing organization: an organization committed to driving combined threat and cybersecurity results that scale across government and industry. 
While not all-inclusive, this Year in Review outlines key milestones and mission 
outcomes achieved during NSA Cybersecurity’s first year. 
Thank you for your support. We welcome your questions and comments at cybersecurity@nsa.gov. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 
Contents 
Letter from the NSA Cybersecurity Director.....................................................3 Keys, Codes and Cryptography ...............................................................................4 Cybersecurity Products...................................................................................................6 Election Security...................................................................................................................9 Responding to COVID-19..............................................................................................10 Strengthening Public-Private Partnerships.........................................................12 Building a Diverse and Resilient Workforce .....................................................14 New Ideas Moving Us Forward.................................................................................16 Closing......................................................................................................................................19 


2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 


LETTER FROM THE NSA CYBERSECURITY DIRECTOR 
Eighteen months ago, several colleagues and I discussed the results of an internal study to examine 
the state of the cybersecurity mission at NSA. The findings were grim.  As technology and the 
cyber threat had rapidly evolved, it was clear we had not always kept pace. 

We left the room with a sense of urgency and purpose. A few months later, the Director of NSA, GEN Paul M. Nakasone, announced the establishment of the NSA Cybersecurity Directorate, with a mission to prevent and eradicate cyber actors from systems critical to national security and critical infrastructure, with a focus on the Defense Industrial Base. These systems need particular focus because they hold many of our nation’s capabilities and secrets. 
NSA’s code-making and code-breaking capabilities, cyber intelligence and technical cybersecurity expertise offer distinct contributions to the cybersecurity mission across the U.S. Government, as encryption is the root of trust and a powerful component of every organization’s cybersecurity. We generate mission outcomes through combining these with the power of our partnerships – 
government, private sector, foreign and academia.  We aren’t alone in the fight against adversary 
cyber actors, nor do we want to be. 

As we began our first year, we took a deliberate approach to building trust by sharing unclassified 
threat and cybersecurity advice. We forged deeper relationships with our U.S. government and industry partners to deliver better outcomes than any of us could achieve alone. 
What’s at stake has become even clearer over the past year as connectivity between personal and enterprise networks increased exponentially with COVID, expanding the attack surface malicious cyber actors can leverage. We surged to rapidly deliver capacity for secure telework, and provide 
intelligence and cybersecurity advice to protect networks used in developing and approving a coronavirus vaccine. 
In the midst of the pandemic, we also worked alongside our partners at CISA, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and U.S. Cyber Command to secure the 2020 Presidential Election from 
foreign interference and influence. 

BUILDING TRUST 
by sharing unclassified threat and cybersecurity advice. 
This Year in Review describes those efforts. It is a testament to the skill, dedication and resilience of our people - and our partners across the public and private sectors - who worked together throughout the year to defend the United States in cyberspace. 

Be well, Anne Neuberger 


2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 




KEYS, CODES AND CRYPTOGRAPHY 
In our “prevent and eradicate” mission statement, “prevent” is an explicit reference to our production of cryptography that protects the nation’s most critical secrets from our most capable adversaries. NSA cybersecurity’s code-making mission is complemented by NSA’s code-breaking mission. Our ability to build strong cryptography is informed by NSA’s complementary Signals Intelligence mission to break foreign adversaries’ cryptography. 
In 2020, NSA focused on modernizing encryption across the Department of Defense (DoD). It began with a push to eliminate cryptography that is at risk from attack due to adversarial computational advances. This applied to several systems commonly used by the Armed Services today to provide command and 

NSA DROVE MODERNIZATION OF ENCRYPTION 
working closely with the Joint Staff and Services. 
control, critical communications, and battlefield awareness. It also applied to operational practices concerning the handling of cryptographic keys 
NSA, with substantial fiscal investments to field next-generation 

encryption. To this end, NSA has approved a new suite of quantum-resistant cryptographic algorithms for use in National Security Systems that address a range of potential threats for future 
use in equipment supporting the warfighter. 

Modernizing encryption even extends to the nuclear arsenal. NSA provided the cybersecurity architecture and security engineering for the Ground and the implementation of modern suites of cryptography in network communications devices. 


More significantly, NSA has now embarked upon a broad effort to 
modernize the Department’s cryptography to make it resistant to exploitation by a quantum computer. Such a computer is still 

theoretical, but its development could render large swaths of the U.S. cryptographic inventory obsolete. Thus, the DoD and the Intelligence Community (IC) are relying heavily on 

Based Strategic Deterrent (GBSD). The GBSD is slated to replace the nation’s aging intercontinental ballistic missiles. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
4

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 
Foremost in NSA’s code-making mission is the production of the nuclear “launch codes” 
and related materials that would be used should the president ever authorize the launch of U.S. nuclear weapons.  NSA also provides the encryption in the communications systems used to convey those orders. NSA’s code-making mission extends to the production and distribution of keys, codes, and cryptographic materials used by the U.S. Government and U.S. military to protect communications from adversary eavesdropping and data/information from adversary intrusions.   
NSA’s keys, codes, and crypto mission rekeyed the entire U.S. Air Force (USAF) F-22 
fighter jet fleet, as they do each year. The F-22 fleet of approximately 165 jets is a critical asset in the Air Force arsenal and the cryptographic devices on each jet secure 
communications and telemetry on and off the aircraft. This is typical of the kind of work NSA does for the Armed Services in their entirety.  
Lastly, NSA’s role in cryptography also includes the development and deployment of protective technologies. These technologies are important in preventing or detecting 
adversaries from physically exploiting cryptographic equipment and classified material 
while they are deployed or shipped around the world. These anti-tamper and tamper-indicating solutions prevent or provide a clear indication if equipment or material has been tampered with or exploited. In 2020, 

5

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 





CYBERSECURITY PRODUCTS 

2020 was notable for the number of Cybersecurity Advisories (CSAs) and other products NSA cybersecurity produced and released. These products are intended to alert network 
owners, specifically National Security System (NSS), Department of Defense (DoD), and 
Defense Industrial Base (DIB), of cyber threats and enable defenders to take immediate action to secure their systems. NSA has attributed threat activities to foreign adversaries in detail; calling attention to adversary activity to help network defenders prioritize patching and mitigation efforts, which imposes cost and makes foreign adversary cyber actors less successful across the board. In addition to supporting U.S. and allied network defenders, CSAs also expose foreign adversaries’ tools, infrastructure, and tactics, eroding their ability to use the same tradecraft in the future. 
While the primary purpose of publicly releasing CSAs is to benefit 
NSS, DoD, and DIB owners and repel foreign adversaries, a positive byproduct is that the private sector in the U.S. and across the globe 

can also benefit from this information and can 
leverage it to better secure their own enterprises for cybersecurity that scales. 
Since its creation, NSA cybersecurity has publicly 
released 30 unique, timely, and actionable cybersecurity products. The success of every 
CSA is measured by the outcomes it drives, more 
specifically three factors: 
• A quantitative increase in patching for our customers 


NSA CYBERSECURITY CALLED ATTENTION TO ADVERSARY ACTIVITY 
to help network defenders prioritize patching and mitigation efforts, impose cost, and make foreign adversary cyber actors less successful across the board. 
• 
Impacts to adversary behaviors (i.e. changes in tools, tactics, and procedures) 

• 
Qualitative assessments of the value-added to the cybersecurity community (based on feedback received from our customers and observed via open source) 


In October 2019, upon discovering that Russian actors were obfuscating their identity by leveraging Iranian implants and infrastructure for cyber operations, NSA and the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre partnered to release a first-ever, dual-seal advisory 
highlighting this activity and providing indicators of compromise. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
6

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 
In January 2020, Microsoft released a patch for a critical cryptographic vulnerability in Windows 10 that was discovered and disclosed by NSA. The vulnerability affected millions of users around the world and, if it had been discovered by foreign adversaries, could have been used to undermine cryptographic trust across vast numbers of networks. 
In a significant departure from past practice, NSA accepted public recognition for this 
discovery and disclosure. Prior to the patch’s release by Microsoft, NSA coordinated a rapid patching strategy for key components within DoD, including U.S. Cyber Command. Due to these efforts, DoD was able to rapidly patch the vulnerability in its enterprise networks. NSA’s Cybersecurity Advisory, which was released concurrent with Microsoft’s patch, has been downloaded approximately 2 million times. 
In May 2020, to communicate technical guidance directly with network defenders, NSA launched its new Twitter handle @NSAcyber. The launch of the Twitter handle was aligned with the release of NSA’s CSA on a vulnerability in Exim Mail Transfer Agent. This CSA warned of ongoing exploitation of a known vulnerability in Exim Mail Transfer Agent by a Russian cyber actor, the Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate’s (GRU) Main Center for Special Technologies, publicly known as Sandworm. 
This advisory was significant for the outcomes it generated. Immediately following the 
CSA’s release, there was an uptick in patching of this vulnerability by NSA customers. 
Additionally, multiple threat intelligence firms pivoted off the data to write substantive 
publications, and a variety of information security researchers used the provided indicators of compromise to uncover additional adversary 


NSA launched its 
activity. Most importantly, NSA’s direct action denied the GRU 

new Twitter handle 
their tools, infrastructure, and existing accesses, safeguarding a 



@NSACYBER. 

wide array of their intended targets. 
In July 2020, NSA partnered with DHS CISA to release guidance on how National Security Systems owners, the Department of Defense, the Defense Industrial Base, and other critical infrastructure stakeholders should secure their operational technologies and industrial control systems. This CSA was written in response to malicious cyber actors’ targeting of critical infrastructure. Public and private sector partners took immediate action, enhancing the security of the nation in cyberspace. 


2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
7

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 
In August 2020, NSA exposed previously undisclosed Linux malware called 
“Drovorub.” Drovorub was developed for use by the Russian GRU 85th GTsSS. Called “truly stunning” and “a major flex” by the cybersecurity community, the 
comprehensive CSA provided detailed technical analysis, detection techniques, and actionable mitigations, and its public exposure dealt a setback to the GRU’s cyber operations. 
In October 2020, NSA released a CSA on 25 publicly known common vulnerabilities 
and exposures. This release was designed to encourage network defenders to prioritize patching and mitigation efforts to defend against cyber adversaries deemed to be the most immediately threatening. 
These advisories and more can be found on NSA.gov/cybersecurity-guidance. 




2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 


ELECTION SECURITY 

2020 was notable not just because it was the NSA Cybersecurity Directorate’s first year nor because of 
COVID-19, but also because it was an election year in the United States. Drawing on lessons learned 
from the 2016 presidential election and the 2018 
mid-term elections, NSA was fully engaged in whole-of-government efforts to protect 2020 election from foreign interference and 

influence. Cybersecurity was a foundational component of NSA’s overall election defense effort. 
NSA’s cybersecurity insights supported the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Cyber Command, the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Office of the 
Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) by sharing insights on adversary cyber actors and activities, particularly regarding any indicators of intent to interfere. NSA coordinated across the USG to identify potential threats and vulnerabilities to better understand our adversaries’ intent and capabilities, impose costs through campaigns aimed at eradicating foreign adversarial activity, and enable the defensive actions of U.S. domestic agencies by collaborating with key partners including DHS and 
FBI on sharing indicators of compromise, victim notifications, 
and release of public Cybersecurity Advisories. 

NSA’s cybersecurity contributions to sharing knowledge and 

mitigating election threats included: 
Providing almost 



4,000

INDICATORS OF COMPROMISE 
to partneragencies forsubsequentaction Tipping approximately 

200 


NOTIFICATIONS OF COMPANY/AGENCYCOMPROMISE 
to partner agencies Responding tomore than 

250 


INQUIRIES 
for additional reporting 
Evaluating more than 
25 


LEADS/TIPS
from partners 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
9

www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 



RESPONDING TO COVID-19 
 COVID-19 impacted almost every aspect of American life in 2020: NSA cybersecurity was no exception. In response to this challenge, NSA engaged in several activities of significance, to include providing cybersecurity support to the development of a COVID-19 vaccine, and supporting the Department of Defense’s (DoD) shift to telework. 
SUPPORT TO OPERATION WARP SPEED 
Operation Warp Speed (OWS) is a whole-of-government effort to accelerate the development of a COVID-19 vaccine. Led by the DoD and the Department of Health and Human Services, the OWS team was charged to produce and deliver 300 million doses of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. 
In support of OWS, NSA provided cyber threat intelligence, cybersecurity assessments, and foundational cybersecurity guidance. This included insights on foreign cyber threats to networks, systems, and data related to the development of a vaccine, as well as actionable cybersecurity guidance to protect against these threats. Our nation’s vital 
contributions. 
The most public aspect of NSA’s support to protection of the COVID-19 vaccine development efforts was 
a joint product issued 
by NSA, Department of Homeland Security’s Critical Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), and partners in the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada to warn of Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) 29’s targeting of organizations engaged in COVID-19 vaccine research in the U.S., UK, and Canada.  
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
10
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 
APT29, also known as Cozy Bear and other industry identifiers, is almost certainly part 
of the Russian Intelligence Services, and is trying to steal information and intellectual property. APT29’s activities were conducted using custom malware known as WellMess 
and WellMail. The joint advisory provided indicators of compromise, detection 
techniques, and actionable mitigations, again, knocking back the efforts of the Russians. 


CYBERSECURITY FOR TELEWORK 
The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in major changes to the way the DoD 
operated in 2020, including a rapid shift to secure telework, enabling the 
Department to continue with vital missions while a good portion of its personnel worked from home.  
NSA enabled this transition by reviewing and approving 16 solution registrations based on Commercial Solutions for Classified (CSfC) 
capability packages, which layer commercial cryptography to 
protect classified data, enabling approximately 100,000 users 
to telework securely. 
And as more employers across government and industry alike transitioned to working from home, NSA rapidly released multiple written products on how to telework securely and shared them on NSA.gov. These products included an evaluation of how commonly used commercial capabilities implement security 
such as end-to-end encryption within commercial collaboration 
services or making source code publicly available. Due to overwhelming feedback from the broader cybersecurity community with regards to the product’s value, it was updated three times after its release to incorporate additional assessments of new platforms by customer request. 
NSA enabled approximately 


100,000
USERS TO TELEWORK SECURELY. 

In further support to U.S. government teleworkers, NSA cybersecurity released products on telework best practices, as well as how to identify and mitigate compromises to personal home networks as more end users began to use them for official business. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
11
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 

NSA cybersecurity is comprised of people with many different backgrounds–and we know that cybersecurity is most effective when we bridge disciplines. So, we closed the year by 
launching a peer mentoring program to foster professional networks and development 
across our cybersecurity workforce. This program gives employees opportunities to shadow their peers elsewhere in NSA’s cybersecurity mission, gaining insights into work they may not be familiar with in their home organizations. Not only does this program foster a stronger esprit de corps within NSA, it also enhances employees’ understanding of how their own work is vital to other parts of NSA’s cybersecurity mission. 
All of these efforts were underpinned by extensive communications campaigns to connect, celebrate wins, and drive modernization efforts. NSA cybersecurity leadership published weekly blogs and videos, with followership that spanned the NSA workforce, the Intelligence Community, and Five Eyes partners. 


2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
15
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 



NEW IDEAS MOVING US FORWARD 
In partnership with the Department of Defense (DoD), NSA cybersecurity worked on a number of initiatives in 2020 to revolutionize how DoD addresses cyber threats to the Defense Industrial Base (DIB), weapons and space systems critical to the lethality of the Joint Force, and Defense Critical Infrastructure.  
CYBERSECURITY OF THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE 
The U.S. Defense Industrial Base (DIB) encompasses more than 100,000 companies that produce all of the systems and services upon which DoD and the nation rely to underpin 
U.S. national security. These companies range from prime contractors with hundreds of 
thousands of employees to small businesses with just a handful of employees. While they 
are an attractive target for foreign intelligence services interested in stealing R&D or learning how to compromise weapons and space platforms, these entities vary widely in the resources they invest in cybersecurity. This has left the DIB extremely vulnerable to cyber intrusion and intellectual property theft, and cyber adversaries including China, 
Russia, and Iran have actively infiltrated the DIB for years. 
Stakeholders across the U.S. government recognized that the U.S. DIB was hemorrhaging secrets to foreign adversaries. Something had to change and NSA cybersecurity piloted 
several new approaches in its first year.  
In November 2019, NSA began laying the groundwork to conduct a pilot with the Defense 
Cyber Crime Center and five DIB companies to monitor and block malicious network traffic based on continuous automated analysis of the domain names these companies’ 
networks were contacting. The pilot’s operational phase commenced in March 2020. Over six months, the Protective Domain Name Service (PDNS) examined more than 4 billion 
DNS queries to and from these companies. The PDNS provider identified callouts to 3,519 malicious domains and blocked upwards of 13 million connections to those domains. 
The pilot proved the value of DoD expanding 
the PDNS service to all DIB entities at scale. 
The PDNS pilot was just a scenesetter for 
a much larger game-changer; this past year, NSA began more fully utilizing DoD authorities to rapidly share bi-directional information with DIB entities and their 
The DIB is extremely vulnerable to cyber intrusion and intellectual property theft. 



NSA CYBERSECURITY IS TAKING ACTION TO PROTECT IT. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 

service providers. Threat information is only useful if acted on quickly – and if network defenders and threat analysts work directly to connect the dots each can uniquely see. NSA now shares threat intelligence directly with those companies, at 
classified or unclassified levels, to tip about the threat 
and most importantly, how to protect against it. The threats to the DIB are some of the most sophisticated the nation faces, and NSA is focusing on sharing information to the “left of theft.” 
NSA regularly participates in several channels to conduct this information sharing. One channel of note features over 420 analysts representing 36 DIB companies, significantly expanding the collective ability of the DoD and the DIB to rapidly defend against cyber intrusions by adversary nation-state cyber actors.  

STRATEGIC CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM 
How cyber secure is cyber “ready” for combat? In response to legislation that recognized the imperative of protecting key weapons and space systems from adversary cyber intrusions, NSA partnered closely with the DoD CIO, Joint Staff, Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition & Sustainment, and the Military Services to structure, design, and execute a new cybersecurity program, focused on the most important weapons and space systems, known as the Strategic Cybersecurity Program (SCP), with the mindset of “stop assessing and start addressing.” 
The program initially identified 12 key weapons and space systems that must be 
evaluated for cybersecurity vulnerabilities that need to be mitigated. This is either due to the existence of intelligence indicating they are being targeted by cyber adversaries 
or because the systems are particularly important to warfighting. These systems cover all warfighting domains (land, sea, air, cyber, and space). Under the auspices of the SCP, 
NSA and military service partners will conduct cybersecurity evaluations, and, most importantly, maintain cyber risk scoreboards and mitigation plans accountability in reducing cyber risk to acceptable levels. 


2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
17
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 



CLOSING 
While we celebrate the successes of 2020, as we head into 2021 we are going to remain laser-focused on the threat. 
China is notable for the scope and scale of its hacking operations. China is using widespread intellectual property theft to build its economy and military. Russia is using cyber operations as a corrosive and destabilizing force across multiple geographic regions. They’ve waged a disinformation war, often using U.S. infrastructure and technologies, to sow and amplify divisions in society. 
Iran is also a volatile threat and has demonstrated the ability and willingness to launch disruptive cyber operations on critical infrastructure across their region. 
In response, NSA will relentlessly pursue our adversaries to keep them out of U.S. networks. We’re going to share our threat insights and technical expertise to the fullest extent possible so you can do the same. 
Information sharing is only as good as the action it compels. This year, take action. Prioritize cybersecurity investments against the greatest threats to drive down risk. Join us in advocating for innovative public-private partnerships. 
Cyber threats will only be countered by the urgency 
Information sharing
with which we work together to defend against them. 
is only as good as 


THE ACTION IT COMPELS. 
2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 

2020 YEAR IN REVIEW 
www.NSA.gov/cybersecurity l @NSAcyber l cybersecurity@NSA.gov 


