Trend Micro 
About TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog 

Featured Stories
Deciphering Confucius’ Cyberespionage OperationsHomeCategoriesSearch:Deciphering Confucius’ Cyberespionage Operations 0 Posted on: February 13, 2018 
at 5:01 am Posted in: Targeted Attacks 
Author: 
Trend Micro Cyber Safety Solutions Team 


In today’s online chat and dating scene, romance scams are not uncommon, whatwith.cat.shers.and.West African cybercriminals.potently toying with their victims’ emotions tocash in on their bank accounts. It’s quite odd (and probably underreported), however, to see it used as a.vector.for cyberespionage. 
We stumbled upon the.Confucius.hacking group while delving into.Patchwork’s cyberespionage 
operations, and found a number of similarities. Code in their custom malware bore similarities, for instance. Confucius targeted a particular set of individuals in South Asian countries, such asmilitary personnel and businessmen, among others. 
Are Patchwork and Confucius the same group? The commands in their backdoors do resemble eachother. The.con.g..les have a similar, custom structure, and both groups have infrastructure overlap.However, we construe them to be different groups, possibly within the same community, withdifferent objectives and modi operandi. While Patchwork may be more straightforward with itspredominantly malware-based attacks, Confucius’ can be inferred to be more nuanced, relyingheavily on social engineering. 
Exploiting the human psyche with chat apps
Probing Confucius’ infrastructure, we came across websites offering Windows and Android chatapplications, most likely iterations of its predecessor, Simple Chat Point: Secret Chat Point, andTweety Chat. We are admittedly uncertain of the extent ― and success ― of their use, but it’s oneof the ingredients of the group’s operations. 
While the chat applications indeed have real chat features (although the communication is notanonymous, as advertised), they have backdoor routines and .le-stealing behaviors that gettriggered when speci.c words are sent to the app: collecting and harvesting all SMS messages,contacts, and accounts. Tweety Chat’s Android version can record audio, too. Its latest version canmute the device (i.e., take out the ringtone and vibration features) and sync call logs and SMSs. 
We further tested Tweety Chat and saw red .ags indicating their targets of interest: veri.cationemails with a physical address whose postal code is assigned to a provincial capital that alsoappears (upon logging in) as a chat channel in Tweety Chat. 
systemd Vulnerability Leadsto Denial of Service on 
Linux 
qkG Filecoder: Self-Replicating, Document-Encrypting RansomwareMitigating CVE-2017-5689,an Intel Management EngineVulnerabilityA Closer Look at North 
Korea’s Internet 
From Cybercrime toCyberpropaganda 

Security Predictions for 2018 
Attackers are banking onnetwork vulnerabilities and inherent weaknesses to facilitate massive malware attacks, IoT hacks, and operational disruptions. Theever-shifting threats andincreasingly expandingattack surface will challengeusers and enterprises to catchup with their security.
Read our security predictionsfor 2018. 



Attackers are starting toinvest in long-termoperations that target speci.cprocesses enterprises rely on.They scout for vulnerablepractices, susceptiblesystems and operationalloopholes that they canleverage or abuse. To learn more, read our Security 101:Business Process 
Compromise. 

Latest Ransomware Posts 








Figure 1: Tweety Chat’s interface (top), and code snippets showing the .le types it steals (bottom)Romance in cyberespionage
The user list, chat room names, and content of the applications were stored in a remote serverwithout any authentication. The chat logs shed light on the social engineering used by the operatorsto persuade victims to install the cyberespionage malware on their Android devices. The .rst userand chatroom were created on August 27, 2017, and were probably the app authors’ testing ground.The succeeding users and chatrooms were created on October 31 and December 12 the latest. 
A certain.hayat22.and.love.piqued our interest..hayat22, supposedly a female student, engaged inan online romance with a target whose handle was.love, describing himself as living in South Asiaworking in garments manufacturing and wholesaling. 
Over the course of their correspondence,.love.suggested using WhatsApp tocommunicate..hayat22.declined, saying she felt safer using Tweety Chat..love.refused, but when.hayat22.demurred and gave.love.an online cold shoulder,.love.tried installing Tweety Chat ― and failed. He claimed that he wasn’t able to install the app..hayat22.quickly lost interest andstopped replying to him altogether. She also sent him a screenshot to show what Tweety Chatlooked like. 
We’re not sure how.love.wound up in the chat room or how he met.hayat22. He was probablyeither using the Windows version of Secret Chat Point or its web interface, which explainswhy.hayat22.was urging him to install Android Tweety Chat. 
In an earlier chat group, an operator called.Heena.urged the members to install Secret Chat Point onother people’s mobile devices to get perks like credits or the ability to “go invisible”. In anotherchat room called “Maira’s room”, a target of interest disclosed he was a government of.certraveling back from a northern city near the country’s provincial capital. A few days after, theoperator stopped answering in the chat room, and her user account was deleted from the server. 
Figure 2: ByeBye Shell’s interface showing Confucius’ campaigns 
Figure 3: Screenshot showing a group chat where the moderator is urging users to install Tweety Chat 
Digital Extortion: A Forward-looking View 

qkG Filecoder: Self-Replicating, Document-Encrypting Ransomware 

Bad Rabbit Ransomware 
Spreads via Network, Hits 
Ukraine and Russia 

A Look at Locky 
Ransomware’s Recent Spam 
Activities 

Magnitude Exploit Kit Now 
Targeting South Korea With 
Magniber Ransomware 

Recent Posts 
Tropic Trooper’s New
Strategy March Patch TuesdayFixes 75 Security Issues,Drops Registry KeyRequirement in Windows10 

Detecting Attacks thatExploit Meltdown andSpectre with PerformanceCounters 

Campaign PossiblyConnected to 
“MuddyWater” Surfacesin the Middle East and 
Central Asia 

Cryptocurrency-MiningMalware: 2018’s New 
Menace? 

Ransomware 101 



This infographic shows howransomware has evolved, how big the problem hasbecome, and ways to avoidbeing a ransomware victim.
Check the infographic 

Popular Posts 
Homemade Browser 
Targeting Banco do BrasilUsers 
Vulnerabilities in ApacheCouchDB Open the Door toMonero Miners 

Figure 4: Screenshot showing Tweety Chat promoted in social media 
A tangled web of malware
Confucius’ operations include deploying bespoke backdoors and stealing .les from their victim’ssystems with tailored .le stealers, some of which bore resemblances to Patchwork’s. The stolen.les are then ex.ltrated by abusing a cloud storage service. Some of these .le stealers speci.callytarget .les from USB devices, probably to overcome air-gapped environments. 
Compared to Patchwork, whose Trojanized documents exploit at least .ve security .aws,Confucius’ backdoors are delivered through Of.ce .les exploiting memory corruptionvulnerabilities.CVE-2015-1641.and.CVE-2017-11882. Their malware’s resemblance to that of Patchwork’s is also notable. The use of an exploit for a security .aw disclosed in December 2017and their recent activities suggest Confucius is keenly trailing their targets. 
Confucius has a miscellany of backdoors: sctrls, ByeBye Shell, remote-access-c3, andsip_telephone, to name a few. One of its .le stealers, swissknife2, abuses a cloud storage service asa repository of ex.ltrated .les. At the time of research, there were around 60 victims whose datawere uploaded to Confucius-owned cloud storage account. There were also a few thousand .les inthe account that were later deleted. 
Our research, Deciphering Confucius: A Look at the Group’s Cyberespionage Operations, 
delves into the group’s operations, the social engineering methods and gamut of malware it uses,and the countermeasures that organizations can adopt to mitigate them. The list of indicators ofcompromise, which includes Trend Micro’s corresponding detections and solutions, is inthis.appendix. 
Related Posts: 
Untangling the Patchwork Cyberespionage GroupChessMaster Makes its Move: A Look into the Campaign’s Cyberespionage ArsenalCyberespionage Campaign Sphinx Goes Mobile With AnubisSpyHacking Group Spies on Android Users in India Using PoriewSpy 


Learn how to protect Enterprises, Small Businesses, and Home Users from ransomware: 
ENTERPRISE 
. SMALL BUSINESS 
. HOME 
. 
Tags: Confucius 
CVE-2015-1641 
CVE-2017-11882 
Patchwork 
Romance Scam 

Oracle Server VulnerabilityExploited to Deliver DoubleMonero Miner Payloads 
Cryptocurrency-MiningMalware: 2018’s New 
Menace? 
New AndroRAT ExploitsDated Privilege EscalationVulnerability, AllowsPermanent Rooting 

Stay Updated 
Email Subscription 


Comments for this thread are now closed. 

0 Comments TrendLabs 
]1 Login 

. Recommend .Share Sort by Best 


. 
Subscribe 
d 
Add 
Disqus 
to 
your 
siteAdd 
DisqusAdd 
% 
Privacy 


Home and Home Of.ce 

|
For Business 

|
Security Intelligence
|
About Trend Micro 

Asia Paci.c Region (APAC): Australia / New Zealand, 中国, 日本, ...., 台 

Latin America Region (LAR): Brasil, México 

North America Region (NABU): United States, Canada 

Europe, Middle East, & Africa Region (EMEA): France, Deutschland / .sterreich / Schweiz, Italia, Россия, Espa.a, United Kingdom / Ireland 

Privacy Statement 
Legal Policies 
Copyright . 2018 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. 


