. 
Hidden Cobra Targets Turkish Newsletter Sign Up Financial Sector With New Bankshot 
First Name * 

Implant 
By Ryan 
Sherstobitoff 
on Mar 
08, 
2018 
Last Name * 
This post was prepared with contributions from Asheer Malhotra, Charles Crawford, and Jessica 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!Saavedra-Morales. 
On February 28, the McAfee Advanced Threat Research team discovered that the cybercrime group Hidden Cobra continues to target cryptocurrency and financial organizations. In this analysis, we observed the return of Hidden Cobra¡¯s Bankshot malware implant surfacing in the Turkish financial system. Based on the code similarity, the victim¡¯s business sector, and the presence of control server strings, this attack resembles previous 
attacks 
by Hidden Cobra conducted against the global financial network SWIFT. 

In this new, aggressive campaign we see a return of the Bankshot implant, which last appeared in 2017. Bankshot is designed to persist on a victim¡¯s network for further exploitation; thus the Advanced Threat Research team believes this operation is intended to gain access to specific financial organizations. 
Based on our analysis, financial organizations in Turkey were targeted via spear phishing emails containing a malicious Microsoft Word document. The document contains an embedded Adobe Flash exploit, which was recently announced by the Korean Internet Security agency. The exploit, which takes advantage of CVE-2018-4878, 
allows an attacker to execute arbitrary code such as an implant. 
the Further investigation into this campaign and analysis of McAfee product telemetry shows that the infection occurred on March 2 and 3. The implant¡¯s first target was a major government-controlled financial organization. It next appeared in another Turkish government organization involved in finance and trade. A further three large financial institutions in Turkey were victims of this attack. The implant has so far not surfaced in any other sector or country. This campaign suggests the attackers may plan a future heist against these targets by using Bankshot to gather information. 
Bankshot implants are distributed from a domain with a name similar to that of the 


Email Address * 
Country * --Please Select--



McAfee on Twitter 
. 
Follow 
us 
on 
Twitter 


mcafee_labs 

Did you get served an ad about something you were talking about? In our Predictions Report we discuss how our conne¡­ 
https://t.co/4ZQSgDurWw 

4 hours ago Reply 
¡¤ Retweet 
¡¤ Favorite 


mcafee_labs 

In a recent campaign, the Sun Team hacking group implanted cryptocurrency-lending platform Falcon Coin, but the similarly named domain is not associated with the legitimate entity. The malicious domain falcancoin.io was created December 27, 2017, and was updated on February 19, only a few days before the implants began to appear. These implants are variations of earlier forms of Bankshot, a remote access tool that gives an attacker full capability on a victim¡¯s system. This implant also contains functionality to wipe files and content from the targeted system to erase evidence or perform other destructive actions. Bankshot was first reported by the Department 
of 
Homeland 
Security 
on December 13, 2017, and has only recently resurfaced in newly compiled variants. The sample we analyzed is 99% similar to the documented Bankshot variants from 2017. 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
The Bankshot implant is attached to a malicious Word document with the filename Agreement.docx. The document appears to be an agreement template for Bitcoin distribution between an unknown individual in Paris and a to-be-determined cryptocurrency exchange. The author of this document is test-pc. It was created February 26 and was submitted from the Netherlands. The document contains an embedded Flash spyware on victims' mobile devices by uploading maliciou¡­ 
https://t.co/Ho6RhSKo5E 

8 hours ago Reply 
¡¤ Retweet 
¡¤ Favorite 


mcafee_labs 
Operation GhostSecret used multiple #malware 
implants, including an unknown impact with capabilities similar to Ban¡­ 
https://t.co/20oXNJnL9L 

3 days ago Reply 
¡¤ Retweet 
¡¤ Favorite 


Next Article 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!script that exploits CVE-2018-4878 and downloads and executes the DLL implant from falcancoin.io. 
We discovered two more documents, written in Korean, that exploit the same vulnerability as Agreement.docx. These documents appear to be part of the same campaign and may have been used on different targets. These documents also communicated with falcancoin.io to install Bankshot and also contain themes around cryptocurrency security. 
Two Flash files exploit CVE-2018-4878. 

843c17b06a3aee22447f021307909890b68828b9 (February 25) 343ebca579bb888eb8ccb811f9b52280c72e484c (February 25 



PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!MaliciousdocumentexploitingCVE-2018-4878.PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!The implants are downloaded via a Flash file embedded in the malicious document. They are executed when the victim views the document. 

PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
The implants (DLLs) are disguised as ZIP files and communicate with three control servers, two of them Chinese-language online gambling sites. These URLs can be found hardcoded in the implants¡¯ code. 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!Analyzing Bankshot 
The sample (a2e966edee45b30bb6bb5c978e55833eec169098) is a Windows DLL that serves as a backdoor and contains a variety of capabilities. The malicious DLL is not a service DLL because it lacks ServiceMain(). To mask itself, it can run as a regular library loaded into a legitimate process. 
The malware begins by creating a new thread from the DllMain() function to carry out its malicious activities: 

The malware performs the following activities: 

Builds 
imports by dynamically loading APIs 


Decrypts 
strings needed for control server communications 


Performs 
control server communications 


Handles 
commands issued by the control server 


Uninstalls 
self from the system 


The malicious thread dynamically loads the APIs it needs at the beginning of its execution using LoadLibrary() and GetProcAddress(). APIs from the following libraries are loaded at runtime: 

Kernel32.dll 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
Ws2_32/wsock32.dll Apvapi32.dll Oleaut32.dll Iphlp.dll Urlmon.dll 





Based on packet capture analysis of previous implants from 2017, the following strings are used in control server communications: 

Connection: keep-alive Cache-Control: max-age=0 


Accept: */* 

Content-Type: 
multipart/form-data; boundary= 


Content-Type: 
application/octet-stream 



Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate,sdch 

Accept-Language: ko-KR -> Korean 

Content-Disposition: 
form-data;name=¡±board_id¡± 


Content-Disposition: 
form-data;name=¡±user_id¡± Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±img01_29.jpg¡± Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±my.doc¡± Content-Disposition: 
form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±pratice.pdf¡± 







Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±king.jpg¡± Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±dream.avi¡± Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±hp01.avi¡± Content-Disposition: form-data;name=¡±file1¡å; filename=¡±star.avi¡± 




User Agents 
The implant either fetches the user agent from Internet Explorer (using ObtainUserAgentAsString()) or uses a default user agent specified in the malware binary: 
Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64) Chrome/28.0.1500.95 Safari/537.36 

Control Server Communications 
The malware initiates communication with the control server by sending it an HTTP POST request with additional optional HTTP data, such as: 
------FormBoundary<randomly_generated_characters> Content-Disposition: form-data; name="board_id" 
8306 ------FormBoundary<randomly_generated_characters> Content-Disposition: form-data; name="user_id" 
*dJU!*JE&!M@UNQ@ ------FormBoundary<randomly_generated_characters> Content-Disposition: form-data; name="file1"; filename="king.jpg" Content-Type: application/octet-stream 

board_id is a four-digit number that may be an identifier for a campaign ID. Based on analysis of previous samples, this is a unique identifier. 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
user_id is a hardcoded value in the malware binary that is sent to the control server. The username appears to be attacker specified and has occurred in 2017 Bankshot samples. This links the previous samples with this unique username. 

filename is based on static analysis. This looks like a specific beacon to indicate that the malware is ready to receive commands. 
The optional HTTP data with king.jpg looks like a beacon to inform the control server that the malware is ready to accept new commands: 

Commands received from the control server are encoded DWORDs After decoding, these DWORDs should be in the range 123459h to 123490h 



The 
command 
index 
calculator 
and 
jump 
to 
the 
appropriate 
command. 




Implant Capabilities 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!Based on the responses received from the control server, the malware can carry out the following malicious tasks: 

Recursively 
generate a list of files in a directory and send to the control server 


Terminate 
a specific process. The process is identified by the control server sending the PID to the malware. 


Gather 
network addresses and operating system version 


Execute 
arbitrary commands using ¡°cmd.exe /c¡± 



PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!

Spawning arbitrary processes. 


Create 
processes 


Write 
responses from the control server to a file 


Send 
information for all drives 


Write 
data sent by the control server to a temporary file matching the file path pattern %temp%\DWS00* 


Change 
the time of a file as specified by the control server 


Create 
a process by impersonating a logged-on user 



PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!


Gather the process time for all processes 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!

Gather domain and account names based on all running processes 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!

Read 
a specified file¡¯s contents and send the data to the control server 


Write 
data sent by the control server to an existing file 


Mark 
a file to be deleted on reboot 


PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
Marking a file for deletion on reboot. Overwrite a file with all zeros and mark it for deletion on reboot 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
Wiping files with zeros and marking it for deletion on reboot. 

Delete 
files using the DeleteFile() API 


Load 
an arbitrary library into its process space. This may be used to load additional downloaded components of the attack. 



After every action is performed the malware sends a response to the control server indicating whether the action was successful. 

Connections 
The US 
government 
reports 
that Bankshot is used by Hidden Cobra to target multiple industries including financial organizations. This implant has been connected to a major Korean bank 
attack 
and is also known as Trojan Manuscript. That variant contained the capability to search for hosts related to the SWIFT network and the same control server strings as the variant we found targeting the Turkish financial sector. The implant does not conduct financial transactions; rather it is a channel into the victim¡¯s environment, in which further stages 
of 
implants 
can 
be 
deployed 
for 
financial reconnaissance. The Bankshot implant was also observed in 2017 in documents appearing to come from Latin American banks. 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
These connections, combined with the implant¡¯s nearly identical appearance to known variants, are a strong indication that we have uncovered a Hidden Cobra attack. Further, previous implants from 2017 contained bogus documents with financially themed content. 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!

Conclusion 
We have found what may be an early data-gathering stage for future possible heists from financial organizations in Turkey (and possibly other countries). In this campaign, we see the 
adoption 
of 
a 
recent 
zero-day 
Adobe 
Flash 
vulnerability 
to 
get 
the 
implant 
onto 
the 
victim¡¯s systems. 

The campaign has a high chance of success against victims who have an unpatched version of Flash. Documents with the Flash exploit managed to evade static defenses and remain undetected as an exploit on VirusTotal. This is the first time that Bankshot has been tied directly to financial-related hacking and the first time it has been used since November 2017. 
McAfee detects these threats as: 

RDN/Generic Exploit RDN/Generic.dx 


Generic PWS.y Generic.hbg Exploit-CVE2018-4878 


McAfee customers are also covered by McAfee Global Threat Intelligence Web Reputation classification, which rate these URLs as High Risk. 

Indicators of Compromise 
MITRE ATT&CK techniques 

Exfiltration 
over command and control channel 


Commonly 
used port 



Command-line interface 

Service 
execution 


Automated 
collection 


Data 
from 
local 
system 



Process 
discovery 


System 
time discovery 


Credential 
dumping 


Exploitation 
of vulnerability 


Process 
injection 


File 
deletion 


PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!
Hashes 

650b7d25f4ed87490f8467eb48e0443fb244a8c4 65e7d2338735ec04fd9692d020298e5a7953fd8d 166e8c643a4db0df6ffd6e3ab536b3de9edc9fb7 a2e966edee45b30bb6bb5c978e55833eec169098 




Domains 

530hr[dot]com/data/common.php 028xmz[dot]com/include/common.php 168wangpi[dot]com/include/charset.php Falcancoin[dot]io 



. 
Previous 
Article 
Next 
Article 
. 

. Categories: McAfee 
Labs 
. Tags: advanced 
persistent 
threats, cybercrime, cybersecurity, malware 

PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!


Leave a reply 
Facebook Comments (1) Comments (0) G+ Comments 
1 Comment Sort by 


Add a comment... 

FacebookComments Plugin 

Leave a Comment 
Comment 
Name * Email * 
Please enter an answer in digits: 13 + 16 = 
PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!PostCommentPostCommentAbout|Subscribe|Contact&MediaRequests|PrivacyPolicy|Legal.2018McAfeeLLC.....
Search 
. 
Business 
Consumer 
Executive 
Perspectives 
McAfee 
Partners 
McAfee 
Labs 

Languages 
English 

Follow us 

About 
Subscribe 
Contact 
& 
Media 
Requests 
Privacy 
Policy 
Legal 

. McAfee LLC 

PDFmyURLletsyouconvertacompletewebsitetoPDFautomatically!

