¨C 

¨C 

We use cookies to make your experience of our websites better. By using andfurther navigatingthis website you accept that some of your browsing activity can be recorded in cookies. Detailed information about the use of cookies on this website is available by clicking on more 
information. 

ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!Who¡¯s behind it? 
Due to tools and tactics in use we attribute the campaign to LuckyMouse Chinese-speaking actor (also known as EmissaryPanda andAPT27). Also the C2domain update.iaacstudio[.]com was previously used in their campaigns. The tools found in this campaign, such as the HyperBro Trojan, are regularly used by a variety of Chinese-speaking actors. Regarding Metasploit¡¯s shikata_ga_nai encoder ¨C although it¡¯s available for everyone and couldn¡¯t be the basis for attribution, we know this encoder has been used by LuckyMouse previously. 
Government entities, including the Central Asian ones also were a target for this actor before. Due to LuckyMouse¡¯s ongoing waterholing of government websites and the corresponding dates, we suspect that one of the aims of this campaign is to access web pages via the data center and inject JavaScripts into them. 

How did the malware spread? 
The initial infection vector used in the attack against the data center is unclear. Even when we observed LuckyMouse using weaponized documents with CVE-2017 -118822 (Microsoft Office Equation Editor, widely used by Chinese-speaking actors since December 2017), we can¡ät prove they were related to this particular attack. It¡¯s possible the actor used a waterhole to infect data center employees. 
The main C2 used in this campaign is bbs.sonypsps[.]com, which resolved to IP-address, that belongs to the Ukrainian ISP network, held by a Mikrotik router using firmware version 6.34.4 (from March 2016) with SMBv1 on board. We suspect this router was hacked as part of the campaign in order to process the malware¡¯s HTTP requests. The Sonypsps[.]com domain was last updated usingGoDaddy on 2017-05-05 until 2019-03-13. 
ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!
FMikrotik router with two-year-old firmware and SMBv1 on board used in this campaign 
In March 2017, Wikileaks published details about an exploit affecting Mikrotik called ChimayRed. According to the documentation, however, it doesn¡¯t work for firmware versions higher than 6.30. This router uses version 6.34. 
There were traces of HyperBro in the infected data center from mid-November 2017. Shortly after that different users in the country started being redirected to the malicious domain update.iaacstudio[.]com as a result of the waterholing of government websites. These events suggest that the data center infected with HyperBro and the waterholing campaign are connected. 
What did the malware do in the data center? 
ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!
Anti-detection stages. Different colors show the three dropped modules: legit app (blue), launcher (green), and decompressor with the Trojan embedded (red) 
The initial module drops three files that are typical for Chinese-speaking actors: a legit Symantec pcAnywhere (IntgStat.exe) for DLL side loading, a .dll launcher (pcalocalresloader.dll) and the last-stage decompressor (thumb.db). As a result of all these steps, the last-stage Trojan is injected into svchost.exe¡¯s process memory. 
The launcher module, obfuscated withthe notorious Metasploit¡¯s shikata_ga_nai encoder, is the same for all the droppers. The resulting deobfuscated code performs typical side loading: it patches pcAnywhere¡¯s image in memory at its entry point. The patched code jumps back to the decryptor¡¯s second shikata_ga_naiiteration, but this time as part of the whitelisted application. 
This Metasploit¡¯s encoder obfuscates the 
last 
part 
of 
the launcher¡¯s code, which in turn resolves the 
ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!necessary API and maps thumb.db into the same process¡¯s (pcAnywhere) memory. The first instructions in the mapped thumb.db are for a new shikata_ga_naiiteration. The decrypted code resolves the necessary API functions, decompresses the embedded PE file with RtlCompressBuffer() using LZNT1 and maps it into memory. 

What does the resulting watering hole look like? 
The websites were compromised to redirect visitors to instances of both ScanBox and BEeF. These redirects were implemented by adding two malicious scripts obfuscated by a tool similar to the Dean Edwards packer. 

Resulting script on the compromised government websites 
Users were redirected to https://google-updata[.]tk:443/hook.js, a BEeF instance, and https://windows-updata[.]tk:443/scanv1.8/i/?1, an empty ScanBox instance that answered a small piece of JavaScript code. 
ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!
Conclusions 
LuckyMouse appears to have been very active recently. The TTPs for this campaign are quite common for Chinese-speaking actors, where they typically provide new solid wrappers (launcher and decompressor protected with shikata_ga_naiin this case) around their RATs (HyperBro). 
The most unusual and interesting point here is the target. A national data center is a valuable source of data that can also be abused to compromise official websites. Another interesting point is the Mikrotik router, which we believe was hacked specificallyfor the campaign. The reasons for this are not very clear: typically, Chinese-speaking actors don¡¯t bother disguising their campaigns. Maybe these are the first steps in a new stealthier approach. 

Some indicators of compromise 
Dro ppe rs 
22CBE2B0F1EF3F2B18B4C5AED6D7BB79 0D0320878946A73749111E6C94BF1525 
Launcher 
ac337bd5f6f18b8fe009e45d65a2b09b 
HyperBro in-memory Trojan 
04dece2662f648f619d9c0377a7ba7c0 
Domains and IPs 
bbs.sonypsps[.]com update.iaacstudio[.]com wh0am1.itbaydns[.]com google-updata[.]tk windows-updata[.]tk 

ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!
Share post on: 


Related Posts 


LEAVE A REPLY 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 
Enter your comment here 
Name * 
Email * 

ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 
Notify me when new comments are added. 


Please upgrade to a supported browser to get a reCAPTCHA challenge. 
Alternatively if you think you are getting this page in error, please check your internet connection and reload. 
Why is this happening to me? 

ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!
. 2018 
AO 
Kaspersky 
Lab. 
All Rights Reserved. Registered trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. 
Contact 
us 
| Privacy 
Policy 
| License 
Agreement 

Email 
I agree to provide my email address to AO Kaspersky Lab to receive information about new posts on the site. I understand that I can withdraw this consent at any time via e mail by clicking the unsubscribe link that I find at the bottom of any e mail sent to me for the purposes mentioned above. 


ConvertwebpagesorentirewebsitestoPDFPDFmyURL!


