¨C 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURLCisco Talos recently published 
a 
blogpost 
describingtargeted attacks in the Middle East region which we believe may be connected. 
Victimology and Statistics 
Based on our findings, we believe the attackers represent a previously unknown geopolitically motivated threat actor. The campaign started in 2017, with the attackers doing just enough to achieve their goals. They most likelyhave access to additionaltools when needed and appear to have access to an elaborate database of contacts in sensitive organizations and personnel worldwide, especially of vulnerable and non-trained staff. The victim systems range from personal desktop or laptop systems to large servers with domain controller roles or similar. The nature of the targeted ministries varied, including those responsible for telecommunications, health, energy, justice, finance and so on. 
Victims have been spotted in the Palestinian Territories, Egypt, Jordan, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Djibouti, Qatar, Lebanon, Chile, Somalia, Iraq, Morocco, Syria, India, Iran, Canada, the USA, the UK, Germany, Israel, Afghanistan, Serbia, Russia, Oman, Kuwait, South Korea and Denmark. 
Num be r o f vict im  
Vict im o r ganiz at io n t ype  o r ganiz at io ns  
Unknown  91  
Senates/Parliaments  7  
Prime Ministerial Offices  3  
Military/Intelligence Agencies  5  
Other Gov./Ministerial/Diplomatic  20  
Offices  
Financial/Banking Institutions  5  
Media Outlets  2  
Olympic/Sports Bodies  2  
Research Centers/Scholars  2  
Election 
Commissions 
 1  


Distribution/Logistics 1 

The number of victims/victim organizations probably doesn¡¯t represent the full scope of the attacks ¨C only a portion. 

Attack description and attribution 
Operation Parliament appears to be another symptom of escalating tensions in the Middle East region. The attackers have taken great care to stay under the radar, imitating another attackgroup in the region. They have been particularly careful to verify victim devices before proceeding with the infection, safeguarding their command and control servers. The targeting seems to have slowed down 
since 
the 
beginning of 2018, probably winding down when the desired data or access was obtained. The targeting of specific victims is unlike previously seen behavior in regional campaigns by Gaza Cybergang or Desert 
Falcons 
and points to an elaborate information-gathering exercise that was carried out before the attacks (physical and/or digital). 

With deception and false flags increasingly being employed by threat actors, attribution is a hard and complicated task that requires solid evidence, especially in complex regions such as the Middle East. 
See the following for more information and examples of false flags being used in cyberattacks: 
Wave 
your 
false 
flags! 
¡­or 
the 
Nightmares 
and 
Nuances 
of 
a 
Self-Aware 
Attribution 
Space 

OlympicDestroyer 
is 
here 
to 
trick 
the 
industry 


Malware description 
The malware was first seen packed with VMProtect; when unpacked the sample didn¡¯t show any similarities with previously known malware. All the strings and settings were encrypted and obfuscated. Functionality was identified that enables HTTP communication withthe C&C server and invokes ¡°processcreate¡± based on parameters received as a response. 
The configuration and strings are encrypted using 3DES and Base64 encoding. Data sent to the C&C server is also encrypted using 3DES and Base64. Different keys are used for local and network encryption. 
The malware starts communicating with the C&C server by sending basic information about the infected machine. The C&C server then replies with the encrypted serialized configuration. 
The malware basically provides a remote CMD/PowerShell terminal for the attackers, enabling them to execute scripts/commands and receive the results via HTTP requests. 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL
Sample of the C&C response with encrypted commands and configurations 

Examples of attack decoys 

Translation: Contacts list of media personnel 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL
Translation: Relations between UAE and Jordan, and the impact caused by the non-boycott of Qatar 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL
Translation: Military retirement statement 2017 June 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL
Translation: The new Hamas structure for Gaza strip 2017 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL

What should high-pro.le organizations do? 
High-profile organizations should have elevated levels of cybersecurity. Attacks against them are inevitable and are unlikely to ever cease. These organizations need to pay particular attention to their security, implementing additional measures to ensure they are well protected. Anti-targeted attack solutions, threat intelligence capabilities and data flows, default-deny application lockdown, endpoint detection and response, data leak and insider threat prevention, and even isolated/air-gapped networks should form the basis of any strategy for protecting organizations in the current threat landscape. 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURLThe victims of Operation Parliament need to re-evaluate their approach to cybersecurity. 

Additional information 
For more information about the attacks and the indicators of compromise, please contact: 
intelreports@kaspersky.com 
Alternatively, please visit: https://www.kaspersky.com/enterprise-security/apt-intelligence-reporting 
To find more information about cybersecurity awareness training for enterprise or government staff, 
go to Kaspersky 
Security 
Awareness. 

Share post on: 

Related Posts 

LEAVE A REPLY 
Your 
email 
address 
will 
not be published. Required fields are marked * 
SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURLEnter your comment here 
Name * 
Email * 
Notify me when new comments are added. 

SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL
Please upgrade to a supported browser to get a reCAPTCHA challenge. 
Alternatively if you think you are getting this page in error, please check your internet connection and reload. 

. 2018 
AO 
Kaspersky 
Lab. 
All Rights Reserved. Email Registered trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. 
Contact 
us 
| Privacy 
Policy 
| License 
Agreement 


SavewebpagesasPDFwithPDFmyURL


