COMpfun authors spoof visa application with HTTP status-based Trojan 
securelist.com/compfun-http-status-based-trojan/96874 

By GReAT 
You 
may 
remember 
that 
in 
autumn 
2019 
we 
published 
a 
story 
about 
how 
a 
COMpfun 
successor 
known as Reductor infected .les on the .y to compromise TLS traf.c. If you＊re wondering whether the actor behind the malware is still developing new features, the answer is yes. Later in November 2019 our Attribution Engine revealed a new Trojan with strong code similarities. Further research showed that it was obviously using the same code base as COMPFun. 
What＊s of interest inside 
The campaign operators retained their focus on diplomatic entities, this time in Europe, and spread the initial dropper as a spoofed visa application. It is not clear to us exactly how the malicious code is being delivered to a target. The legitimate application was kept encrypted inside the dropper, along with the 32-and 64-bit next stage malware. 
Overall infection chain. Interestingly, C2 commands are rare HTTP status codes 
We observed an interesting C2 communication protocol utilizing rare HTTP/HTTPS status codes (check IETF RFC 7231, 6585, 4918). Several HTTP status codes (422-429) from the Client Error class let the Trojan know what the operators want to do. After the control server sends the status ※Payment Required§ (402), all these previously received commands are executed. 
The authors keep the RSA public key and unique HTTP ETag in encrypted con.guration data. Created for web content caching reasons, this marker could also be used to .lter unwanted requests to the C2, e.g., those that are from network scanners rather than targets. Besides the aforementioned RSA public key to communicate with the C2, the malware also uses a self-generated AES-128 key. 


Who is the author? 
We should mention here once again that the COMPfun malware was initially documented by G-DATA in 2014; and although the company did not identify which APT was using the malware. Based 
mostly 
on 
victimology, 
we 
were 
able 
to 
associate 
it 
with 
the 
Turla 
APT 
with 
medium-to-low 
level of con.dence. 

What the Trojan is able to do 
Its functions include the ability to acquire the target＊s geolocation, gathering host-and network-related data, keylogging and screenshots. In other words, it＊s a normal full-.edged Trojan that is also capable of propagating itself to removable devices. 
As in previous malware from the same authors, all the necessary function addresses resolve dynamically to complicate analysis. To ex.ltrate the target＊s data to the C2 over HTTP/HTTPS, the malware uses RSA encryption. To hide data locally, the Trojan implements LZNT1 compression and one-byte XOR encryption. 
Encrypted data Algorithm Key source 
Ex.ltrated keystrokes, screenshots, etc.  RSA  Public key from con.g-uration data  
Con.guration data in .rsrc section  XOR (plus LZN-T1 compression)  Hardcoded one-bytekey  
Parameters inside the HTTP GET/POSTrequests  AES-128 (plusETag fromcon.g)  Generated by Trojanand shared in beacon  
Commands and arguments from C2 forHTTP status 427 (dir, upl, usb, net)  AES-128  Generated by Trojanand shared in beacon  
Encryption and compression used by the Trojan for various tasks  
Initial dropper  

The .rst stage dropper was downloaded from the LAN shared directory. The .le name related to the visa application process perfectly corresponds with the targeted diplomatic entities. As with all modules with a similar code base, the dropper begins by dynamically resolving all the required Windows API function addresses and puts them into structures. It then decrypts the next stage malware from its resource (.rsrc) section. The algorithm used to decrypt the next stage is a one-byte XOR using the key ※0x55§, followed by LZNT1 decompression. 
The following .les are dropped to the disk in addition to the original application that the malware tries to mimic: 
MD5 hash File name Features 
1BB03CBAD293CA9EE3DD坼ieframe.dll.mui 64-bit Trojan CE6F054FC325 version 
A6AFA05CB坼ExplorerFrame.dll.坼32-bit Trojan 
D04E9AF256D278E5B5AD050 mui version 
The dropper urges users to run the .le as administrator (using messages such as ※need to run as admin§), then drops a version corresponding to the host＊s architecture and sets the .le system timestamp to 2013.12.20 22:31. 
Interestingly, the dropper＊s abilities aren＊t limited to PE lures; as an alternative, this stage is also able to use .doc and .pdf .les. In such cases, the dropper will open the .les using the ※open§ shell command instead of running the legitimate spoofed executable application. 

Main module 每 HTTP status-based Trojan 
SHA256  710b0fafe5fd7b3d817cf5c22002e46e2a22470cf3894e- 
b619f805d43759b5a3  
MD5  a6afa05cbd04e9af256d278e5b5ad050  
Compiled  2015.06.26 09:42:27 (GMT)  
Type  I386 Windows GUI DLL  
Size  593408  

Internal ExplorerFrame.dll.mui 

name 
The analysis below is based on the 32-bit sample from the table above. The legitimate ExplorerFrame.dll.mui is a language resource for the ExplorerFrame.dll .le used by Windows Explorer. 
Multi-threaded Trojan features such as monitoring USB devices to spread further and receiving commands as HTTP status codes 

Initialization 
As usual in this malware family＊s code, a huge number of short standalone functions return all the readable strings. This is done to complicate analysis by not allowing the strings to be visible at a glance for researchers. The module＊s preparation stage dynamically resolves all required Windows API function addresses into corresponding custom structures. Afterwards the malware uses indirect function calls only. 
The module obtains the processor architecture (32-or 64-bit) and Windows OS version. It includes a number of anti-analysis checks for virtual machine-related devices (VEN_VMWARE, VBOX_HARDDISK, Virtual_DVD_ROM, etc.) to avoid controlled execution. It also notes which security products are running on the host (Symantec, Kaspersky, Dr.Web, Avast). 
Before every communication with the C2, the malware checks if software such as debuggers (WinDbg, OllyDbg, Visual Studio) and host (Process Explorer or Monitor, etc.) or network monitoring (Wireshark, TCPView, etc.) programs are running. It also checks for internet connectivity and does not attempt to communicate if the checks fail. 
The DLL also checks for potentially available launch processes that it can inject itself into. In the case of PaymentRequired, this could be system, security product or browser processes. Then the malware forms the corresponding code to drop .les, delete .les, etc. 
The last step in the initialization procedure is to decrypt and decompress the con.guration .le. Decryption is done via a one-byte XOR using the 0xAA key, followed by decompression using the LZNT1 algorithm. From the con.guration, the malware parses the RSA public key, ETag and IP addresses to communicate with its control servers. 
Decrypted con.guration data contains an RSA public key to encrypt ex.ltrated data, C2 IPs and unique ETag to communicate with them 

HTTP status-based communication module 
Firstly, the module generates the following: 

AES-128 encryption key used in HTTP GET/POST parameters and HTTP status code 427 (request new command); 

4-byte unique hardware ID (HWID) based on the host network adapters, CPU and .rst .xed logical drive serial number. 
The module then chooses a process to inject the code into, in order of decreasing priority, starting from Windows (cmd.exe, smss.exe), security-related applications (Symantec＊s nis.exe, Dr.Web＊s spideragent.exe) and browsers (IE, Opera, Firefox, Yandex browser, Chrome). 
The main thread checks if the C2 supports TLS in its con.guration. If it does, communication will be over HTTPS and port 443; otherwise, the HTTP protocol and port 80 are used. 

Con.g Parameter Value 
Encryption key RSA public key on the image above 
ETag C8E9CEAD2E084F58A94AEDC14D423E1A 
C2 IPs 95.183.49[.]1095.183.49[.]29200.63.45[.]35 
Decrypted con.guration content inside the analyzed sample 
The .rst GET request sent contains an ETag ※If-Match§ header that is built using data from its decrypted con.guration. ETags are normally used by web servers for caching purposes in order to be more ef.cient and save bandwidth by not resending redundant information if an ETag value matches. The implementation of ETags means the C2 may ignore all requests that are not sent from its intended targets if they don＊t have the required ETag value. 
HTTP status  RFC status meaning  Corresponding command functionality  
200  OK  Send collected target data to C2 with current tickcount  
402  PaymentRequired  This status is the signal to process received (and storedin binary .ag) HTTP statuses as commands  
422  UnprocessableEntity (WebDAV)  Uninstall. Delete COM-hijacking persistence and corre-sponding .les on disk  
423  Locked (WebDAV)  Install. Create COM-hijacking persistence and drop corre-sponding .les to disk  
424  Failed Dependen-cy (WebDAV)  Fingerprint target. Send host, network and geolocationdata  
427  Unde.ned HTTP status  Get new command into IEA94E3.tmp .le in %TEMP%,decrypt and execute appended command  
428  Precondition Required  Propagate self to USB devices on target  

429 Too Many Enumerate network resources on targetRequests 
C2 HTTP status code descriptions, including installation, USB propagation, .ngerprinting, etc. 
HTTP 427 can receive any of the following appended commands: 
Com坼Command functionality

mand 
dir Send directory content to C2 encrypted with RSA public key from con.g 
upl Send .le to C2 encrypted with RSA public key from con.g 
usb Not implemented yet. Possibly same function planned as for HTTP status428 
net Not implemented yet. Possibly same function planned as for HTTP status429 

Removable device propagation module 
If initialization is successful, the malware starts one more thread for dispatching Windows messages, looking for removable devices related to a WM_DEVICECHANGE event. The module runs its own handlers in the event of a USB device being plugged into or unplugged from the host. 

Other spying modules: keylogger, screenshot tool and more 
The user＊s activity is monitored using several hooks. All of them gather the target＊s data independently of any C2 command. Keystrokes are encrypted using the RSA public key stored in the con.guration data and sent once every two seconds, or when more忘 than 512 bytes are recorded. These 512 characters also include left mouse button clicks (written as the ※MSLBTN§ string) and Windows title bar texts. For clipboard content, the module calculates an MD5 hash and if it changes, encrypts the clipboard content with the same RSA public key and then sends it. 
In a separate thread, the Trojan takes a bitmap screenshot using the GDIPlus library, compresses it with the LZNT1 algorithm, encrypts it using the key from the con.guration data and sends it to the control server. A screenshot will be taken of the target and sent anyway, independently of any C2 command. 

Last but not least 
There are several choices 每 albeit not major additional technical ones 每 that the malware author made which we consider to be noteworthy. 
The COM-hijacking-based persistence method injects its corresponding code and structure as a parameter into a legitimate process＊s memory. The malware geolocates victims using legitimate web services: geoplugin.net/json.gp, ip-api.com/json and telize.com/geoip. 
The unusual thread synchronization timeout calculation in the HTTP status thread is peculiar. Mathematically, the partial sum of the series is precisely: 
This series, in the case of a full sum, is just a representation of the exponent. The developers probably used the exponent to make timeouts in the communication thread more unpredictable and grow at a fast rate, and the compiler calculated it this way. 


So what did the COMPFun authors achieve? 
We saw innovative approaches from the COMpfun developers twice in 2019. First, they bypassed TLS 
encrypted 
traf.c 
via 
PRNG 
system 
function 
patching, 
and 
then 
we 
observed 
a 
unique 
implementation of C2 communications using uncommon HTTP status codes. 
The malware operators retained their focus on diplomatic entities and the choice of a visa-related application 每 stored on a directory shared within the local network 每 as the initial infection vector worked in their favor. The combination of a tailored approach to their targets and the ability to generate and execute their ideas certainly makes the developers behind COMPFun a strong offensive team. 

Indicators of compromise 
File MD5 Hashes 
Trojan 
32-bit: 
A6AFA05CBD04E9AF256D278E5B5AD050 
Trojan 
64-bit: 
1BB03CBAD293CA9EE3DDCE6F054FC325 

IPs 
95.183.49.10 
95.183.49.29 
200.63.45.35 




