
Trend
 Micro 



About
 TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog 



Search:Goto…HomeCategoriesHome...Malware... Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry Attack Targets Air-gapped Environments 
Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry Attack Targets Air-gapped Environments 

Posted on:May 12, 2020 
at 5:18 am 

Posted in:Malware, Targeted Attacks 


Author: 
Trend Micro 



By Joey Chen (Threats Analyst) 
Tropic Trooper, a threat actor group that targets government, military, healthcare, transportation, and high-tech industries in Taiwan, the Philippines, and Hong Kong,has been active since 2011. The group was reportedly using spear-phishing emails with weaponized attachments to exploit known vulnerabilities. Primarily motivatedby information theft and espionage, the group has also been seen adopting different strategies such as .ne-tuning tools with new behaviors and going mobile with surveillanceware. 
We found that Tropic Trooper’s latest activities center on targeting Taiwanese and the Philippine military’s physically isolated networks through a USBferry attack(the name derived from a sample found in a related research). We also observed targets among military/navy agencies, government institutions, military hospitals, andeven a national bank. The group employs USBferry, a USB malware that performs different commands on speci.c targets, maintains stealth in environments, andsteals critical data through USB storage. We started tracking this particular campaign in 2018, and our analysis shows that it uses a fake executable decoy and a USBtrojan strategy to steal information. 
Based on data from the Trend Micro. Smart Protection Network. security infrastructure, USBferry attacks have been active since 2014. We found the group wasfocused on stealing defense-, ocean-, and ship-related documents from target networks, which led us to believe that Tropic Trooper’s main purpose is to ex.ltratecon.dential information or intelligence. 
Figure 1. A sample scenario of the USBferry attack 

Tropic Trooper is well aware that military or government organizations may have more robust security in their physically isolated environments (i.e., the use ofbiometrics or USB use in a quarantined machine before an air-gapped environment). The group then targets potentially unsecured related organizations that couldserve as jumping-off points for attacks. For instance, we observed Tropic Trooper move from a military hospital to the military’s physically isolated network. 
This blog post provides an overview of the USB malware called USBferry and its capabilities, as well as the other tools used to in.ltrate physically isolatedenvironments. Further details, including indicators of compromise (IoCs), can be read in the technical brief. 

A USB malware called USBferry 
We .rst encountered the malware from a PricewaterhouseCoopers report that mentioned a sample related to Tropic Trooper but did not include a detailed analysis.We looked into it further and discovered many versions of it, including several program database (PDB) strings. For one thing, the USBferry malware already has atleast three versions, with different variants and components, at the time of writing. Here are the noteworthy points we gathered during analysis: 

The .rst version has a small component of TROJ_YAHOYAH. The malware tries to check if the target machine has a USB plug-in and copies the USBferryinstaller into the USB storage. The activities vary in target environments; some execute commands, source target .les or folder lists, and copy .les fromphysically isolated hosts to compromised hosts, among other things. 
Figure 2. USBferry malware’s .rst version, where the EXE .le is the USBferry malware and the DLL .le is trojan TROJ_YAHOYAH 

The second version has the same capabilities as the .rst and combines components into one executable. This version also changes the malware location and itsname to UF, an abbreviation for USBferry. 
Figure 3. USBferry malware’s second version combined into one .le 


The third version retains the previous versions’ capabilities and improves its stealth in the target environment by residing in the rundll32.exe memory. 
Figure 4. USBferry malware’s third version becomes resident in memory 

How USBferry targets air-gapped systems 
In our technical brief, we broke down how Tropic Trooper has changed the way it uses the abovementioned USBferry versions in attacks. The group achievesinfection by employing the USB worm infection strategy and ferrying a malware installer via USB into an air-gapped host machine. 
Figure 5. USBferry malware using USB worm infection strategy 

Here we will discuss the notable changes in the group’s latest attack chain that uses version UF1.0 20160226 (detected by Trend Micro as TROJ_USBLODR.ZAHB-A): 
Figure 6. USBferry attack scenario, version UF1.0 20160226 

1. 
The decoy .le .rst drops a .ash_en.inf DLL .le, which is a USBferry loader, and tries to load the encrypted USBferry malware 

2. 
The encrypted USBferry malware is embedded in the loader resource section, and the loader drops it into the C:\Users\Public\Documents\Flash folder and names it .ash.dat 

3. 
After the encrypted payload is loaded, the loader injects a malicious DLL into rundll32.exe. The USBferry malware also loads a C&C con.guration .le and.ash_en.dat, which is also located in the C:\Users\Public\Documents\Flash 

4. 
The USBferry malware then tries to connect to the download site and uses a Windows command to collect/copy target host data 


This version checks for network connectivity; if it .nds that the network is unavailable, it tries to collect information from the target machine and copy the collecteddata into USB storage. This way, the USB ex.ltrates the information and sends it back to the C&C server. 

Backdoors and other tools used by Tropic Trooper 
Some backdoors used by Tropic Trooper use injection to execute its routines, while others execute directly and run itself consistently. The group also usessteganography to mask their backdoor routines and evade anti-malware and network perimeter detection. To .nd the full list of the backdoors we analyzed, check out our technical brief. 
Here we will tackle some of the noteworthy backdoors Tropic Trooper used. 

WelCome
 To Svchost 3.2 20110818’s backdoor (detected as BKDR_SVCSHELL.ZAHC-A) C This backdoor bears similarities with a payload we discussed 
in our previous research. Based on the malware version number, this backdoor’s .rst version was developed in or before 2011. This means that TropicTrooper’s activities have been ongoing for at least ten years now. 

Figure 7. The backdoor version name, registered service name, and malware components’ .lenames 


Welcome
 To IDShell 1.0 20150310’s backdoor (detected as BKDR_IDSHELL.ZTFC-A) C The purpose of this backdoor, which has two types, including asteganography jpg version, is to recon the target machine. Like other versions, it uses the DNS protocol to communicate with the backdoor controller. Thetraf.c is encrypted to evade detection. 


Figure 8. The backdoor’s communication traf.c 


Hey! Welcome Server 2.0’s backdoor (detected as BKDR_TEBSHELL.ZTGK) C This is the latest version of the backdoor, available in 32-bit and 64-bitversions, which uses an invisible web shell for remote control and network security evasion. It runs the process as a service, hides backdoor communication innormal traf.c, and uses customized TCP protocol. It also improves the way it handles wrong input commands and unauthorized access. 
Figure 9. The executable version will install and name it as a Windows service, change registry to disable error display, and launch the service 
Tropic Trooper also used other tools in their attacks, such as: 

Command-line remote control listener/port relay tool, which has different versions that can communicate with the backdoor.

Backdoor
 payload/steganography payload execution loaders, which have two versions that can be used to successfully load the encrypted payload andsubsequently delete itself and the payload.


Port
 scanning tools, which are available on the internet. 


The overview provided above highlights how putting critical information in physically isolated networks is not a bulletproof solution for defending againstcyberespionage. Steganography isn’t just used to deliver encrypted payloads; it can also be used to transfer information to a C&C server. Multiple hacking tools andcomponents can also help facilitate successful attacks on different networks and environments. Threat actors like Tropic Trooper can also use an invisible web shellto hide its C&C server location and make incident response tricky. 

MITRE ATT&CK Matrix 

Best practices and Trend Micro solutions 
The latest developments with Tropic Trooper indicate that they are well-prepared to target government institutions and military agencies for stolen intelligence. Thegroup also takes a long time to perform reconnaissance and consequently in.ltrate physically isolated networks. This research also underscores how threat actorscould see potentially vulnerable targets as launch points for extending their attack attempts to other, more critical targets. 
Understanding attack tactics and techniques can provide the needed context for assessing potential impact and adopting defensive strategies. Here are some measuresthat organizations can practice to thwart advanced persistent threats with security that employs actionable threat intelligence, network-wide visibility, and timelythreat protection: 

Enforce
 the principle of least privilege. Employ network segmentation and data categorization to deter lateral movement and mitigate exposure.


Keep
 the system and its applications up-to-date. Weaknesses in the network can serve as entry points for attacks. Enforce a strong patch management policyand consider virtual patching for legacy systems.


Regularly
 monitor your perimeter. Adopt cross-layer detection and response across gateways, endpoints, networks, and servers to protect against a widerange of cybersecurity threats. Firewalls and intrusion detection and prevention systems can help defend against network-based attacks. 


Organizations can take advantage of the Trend Micro Apex One. solution, which provides actionable insights, expanded investigative capabilities, and centralizedvisibility across the network through a variety of threat detection capabilities such as behavioral analysis that protects against malicious scripts, injection,ransomware, memory, and browser attacks. 
A multilayered security solution such as Trend Micro. Deep Discovery. can also be considered; it provides in-depth analysis and proactive response to attacksusing exploits and other similar threats through specialized engines, custom sandboxing, and seamless correlation across the entire attack lifecycle, allowing it todetect these attacks even without any engine or pattern updates. 
Read our technical brief, which discusses in full our analyses of Tropic Trooper’s recent activities, the USBferry malware, and IoCs. 

Related Posts: 

Operation
 ENDTRADE: Finding Multi-Stage Backdoors that TICK


MuddyWater
 Resurfaces, Uses Multi-Stage Backdoor POWERSTATS V3 and New Post-Exploitation Tools


Shifting
 Tactics: Breaking Down TA505 Group’s Use of HTML, RATs and Other Techniques in Latest Campaigns


Gamaredon
 APT Group Use Covid-19 Lure in Campaigns 




Learn how to protect Enterprises, Small Businesses, and Home Users from ransomware: 
ENTERPRISE 
. SMALL BUSINESS 
. HOME 
. 

Tags: cyberespionageKeyBoymilitaryUSBUSBferry 

. Recommend 

. 
Subscribe 
d 
Add 
Disqus 
to 
your 
siteAdd 
DisqusAdd 

. D NtSll M Dt 

Security Predictions for 2020 

Cybersecurity in 2020 will be viewed through many lenses ― from differing attacker motivations and cybercriminal arsenal to technological developments andglobal threat intelligence ― only so defenders can keep up with the broad range of threats.
Read our security predictions for 2020. 

Business Process Compromise 

Attackers are starting to invest in long-term operations that target speci.c processes enterprises rely on. They scout for vulnerable practices, susceptiblesystems and operational loopholes that they can leverage or abuse. To learn more, read our Security 101: Business Process Compromise. 

Recent Posts 

May
 Patch Tuesday: More Fixes for SharePoint, TLS, Runtime, and Graphic Components Released


Tropic
 Trooper’s Back: USBferry Attack Targets Air-gapped Environments


New
 MacOS Dacls RAT Backdoor Show Lazarus’ Multi-Platform Attack Capability


Targeted
 Ransomware Attack Hits Taiwanese Organizations


WebMonitor
 RAT Bundled with Zoom Installer 



Popular Posts 
Exposed Redis Instances Abused for Remote Code Execution, Cryptocurrency Mining 

WebMonitor RAT Bundled with Zoom Installer 

Exposing Modular Adware: How DealPly, IsErIk, and ManageX Persist in Systems 

Coronavirus Update App Leads to Project Spy Android and iOS Spyware 

New MacOS Dacls RAT Backdoor Show Lazarus’ Multi-Platform Attack Capability 

Stay Updated 
YouremailhereSubscribeEmail Subscription 
Home and Home Of.ce 

|


For Business 


|


Security Intelligence

|


About Trend Micro 



Asia Paci.c Region (APAC): Australia / New Zealand, 中国, .本, ...., 台 


Latin America Region (LAR): Brasil, México 


North America Region (NABU): United States, Canada 



Europe, Middle East, & Africa Region (EMEA): France, Deutschland / .sterreich / Schweiz, Italia, Россия, Espa.a, United Kingdom / Ireland 


Privacy Statement

Legal Policies 



Copyright . 2020 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. 



