www.ﬁdelissecurity.com www.threatgeek.com @FidSecSys +1 800.652.4020 Fidelis Threat Advisory #1001 THE RSA HACK September 9, 2011 Document Status: FINAL Last Revised: 2011-09-28 Executive Summary In March of 2011, a spear-phishing email containing an Excel spreadsheet with an embeddedmalicious Adobe Flash payload led to a serious security breach at security ﬁrm RSA. This breachallowed attackers to compromise the integrity of the RSA SecurID authentication system.Attackers subsequently used information obtained via this breach in attacks against military contractors such as Lockheed Martin, Northrup Grumman and L-3 Communications. The phishing email originated from a spoofed email address that bypassed reputation-basedemail ﬁltering, contained a Flash zero-day exploit for which no patch or IPS/AV signature existedand thus was able to penetrate all network perimeter and system-level defenses. Given thatAdobe Flash has a history of serious security vulnerabilities and that client applications arenotoriously difﬁcult for companies to patch, it is highly likely that other zero-day Flashvulnerabilities will be discovered and used in attempts to penetrate other organizations. Becausemalicious payloads can be deeply embedded, traditional signature-based network methods aregenerally ineffective against this type of threat. Given that it serves virtually no business purposeto embed Adobe Flash content inside Microsoft Ofﬁce documents, detecting and/or excising suchcontent from payloads is recommended. Threat Overview The RSA hack consisted of three stages. The ﬁrst stage was a spear-ﬁshing email containing anExcel spreadsheet with an embedded, malicious Flash object. The second stage was theestablishment of remote access via a Poison Ivy reverse tunnel. The third stage involved anunspeciﬁed series of internal privilege escalations and the eventual compromise of the RSASecurID system. (Poison Ivy will be covered in a separate Fidelis Threat Advisory; few speciﬁcs are known about the methods used by the attackers to penetrate RSA’s network after the initialbreach, so this FTA describes only the initial exploitation.) Users are granted permission to copy and/or distribute this document in its original electronic form and print copies for personal use. This document cannot be modiﬁed or converted to any other electronic or machine-readable form in whole or in part without prior written approval of Fidelis Security Systems, Inc. While we have done our best to ensure that the material found in this document is accurate, Fidelis Security Systems, Inc. makes no guarantee that the information contained herein is error free. Threat Advisory #1001 The RSA Hack Copyright © 2011 Fidelis Security Systems Page 1 of 2 Rev. 2011-09-28  www.ﬁdelissecurity.com www.threatgeek.com @FidSecSys +1 800.652.4020 The malicious Flash object contained a zero-day exploit for which no patch existed and for whichthere were no AV/IPS signatures. The vulnerability was later assigned CVE number CVE-2011-0609. The email came from a spoofed email address that bypassed email security gateway appliances. Once on the system, the malware downloaded a specialized Poison Ivy toolkit and established a reverse tunnel. Attackers then used this reverse tunnel to mount further attacks. Risk Assessment Microsoft Ofﬁce and Adobe Flash are ubiquitous, and while Ofﬁce is relatively easy for mostorganizations to patch, Adobe Flash is far more challenging. Even if an organization were perfectwith their patches, the exploit used in this case was a zero-day: it exploited an unknown andunpatched vulnerability. Given the ease by which the malware was able to evade traditionalnetwork defenses and given that it led to a serious enough breach of RSA’s SecurID system thatthey were forced to reissue millions of tokens, the threat of a similar type of attack is extremely serious. Indicators & Mitigation Strategies Given the relatively high number of recently discovered Flash vulnerabilities and Adobe’s poor application security track record, it is likely that another zero-day vulnerability will be utilized inthis type of attack. Signature-based defenses will thus be of negligible use against cutting-edgethreats. The unusual packaging of the threat is its greatest weakness: there exist few legitimateuses for a Microsoft Ofﬁce document with embedded Flash and thus we recommend detectingand/or excising such an uncommon ﬁle when it appears in network streams. The Fidelis Take Fidelis has made a rule available to customers that detects and/or blocks Adobe Flash content inMicrosoft Ofﬁce documents when transmitted over the network. This rule is effective regardless ofprotocol, the degree of embedding, the vulnerability used, the delivery method chosen by theattackers, or the level of sophistication behind the social engineering attempts. Further Reading • Dark Reading, “Researchers Uncover The Email That Led To The RSA Hack”, Tim Wilson,8/26/11. http://goo.gl/Zujdi • Channel Insider, “RSA to Reissue SecurID Tokens”, Ericka Chickowski, 6/7/11. http://goo.gl/aXvWV • Microsoft Technet, “A Technical Analysis on the CVE-2011-0609 Adobe Flash Player Vulnerability”, 3/17/11. http://goo.gl/uhBpf • Fidelis Security Systems, “Fidelis XPS Policy Pack (May 2011).” http://ﬁdelissecurity.com/ support Threat Advisory #1001 The RSA Hack Copyright © 2011 Fidelis Security Systems Page 2 of 2 Rev. 2011-09-28 