
Home 
About 
us 

August 1, 2017 
Cobalt strikes back: an evolving multinational threat to .nance. 
1. Introduction 
Bank robbery is perhaps the quintessential crime. The promise of immense, instant riches has lured many a criminal to target banks. And while the methods, tools, and scale of robbery have all changed, two things have stayed the same: the enticement of a hefty payday and the fact that no system is perfectly secure. 
In the modern digital economy, criminals are becoming ever more creative in ways to make off with millions without having to leave home. Despite enormous efforts, security is always a work in progress because of technical vulnerabilities and the human factor. Only a small fraction of banks today are able to withstand targeted attacks of the kind perpetrated by Cobalt, a cybercriminal group .rst described in. 2016 that is currently active worldwide. Now the group has set its sights on more than just banks. 
Researchers at Positive Technologies and other companies 
have described the group's methods previously. In this report, we will describe the new techniques used by Cobalt in 2017, the changing target pro.le, and recommendations on how to avoid becoming their latest victim.. 

2. Executive summary 
The Cobalt group has been quick to react to banks' protective measures. When spam .lters on mail. servers began to block most of the group's phishing emails, which contained forged sender information, the attackers changed techniques. Now they actively use Supply 
Chain 
Attacks 
to leverage the infrastructure and accounts of actual employees at one company, in order to forge convincing emails targeting a different partner organization. This tactic has already been used by other attackers, such as when the infrastructure of M.E.Doc was used to spread the NotPetya virus, which blocked workstations at a large number of major 
companies. 
Cobalt has attacked banks, .nancial exchanges, insurance companies, investment funds, and other. .nancial organizations. The group is not afraid to use the names of regulatory authorities or security. topics to trick recipients into opening phishing messages from illegitimate domains. 
Here is some of the latest information about techniques used by the Cobalt group: 

Active attacks on bank partners in order to use partner infrastructure for sending phishing messages to banks. 

Phishing messages disguised as mailings from .nancial regulators.. 

Various types of malicious attachments: document with an exploit (.doc, .xls, .rtf), archive with an executable dropper .le (.scr, .exe), and archive with LNK .le (.lnk).. 

Among the .rst groups to get access to the latest version of the Microsoft Word Intruder 8. exploit builder, which made it possible to create documents exploiting vulnerability CVE­2017-0199. 

Poorly protected public sites are used to upload .les and then download them to victim. computers. 

Phishing messages are sent both to corporate addresses and personal addresses of employees. 


3. What we already knew about Cobalt 
Connect on Twitter 
Follow 
@ptsecurity_uk 



Connect on linkedin 
Blog Archive 
. 
2017 
(18) 
. 
August 
(1) 

Cobalt 
strikes 
back: 
an 
evolvingmultinational 
thr... 

. 
July 
(1) 
. 
June 
(5) 
. 
May 
(2) 
. 
April 
(5) 
. 
March 
(2) 
. 
February 
(1) 
. 
January 
(1) 
. 
2016 
(18) . 
2015 
(22) . 
2014 
(18) . 
2013 
(15) . 
2012 
(45) . 
2011 
(22) . 
2010 
(27) . 
2009 
(6) . 
2007 
(1) . 
2005 
(1) 


Search 



Search 
Labels 
telecom 
phdays 
Best 
of 
Positive 
Research 
Linux 
PCI 
DSS 
audit 
positive 
technologies 

Subscribe 


4. Cobalt targets and objectives 
The Cobalt group's traditional "stomping grounds" are the Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia. In 2017, attacks grew to include North America, Western Europe, and even South America (Argentina). 
Of the companies targeted by Cobalt in phishing mailings, around 75 percent are in the .nancial. sector. Most of these .nancial companies are banks (90%), but others include .nancial exchanges,. investment funds, and lenders. This widening range of targets suggests that attacks on diverse companies with major .nancial .ows are underway. This concurs with the forecast made by the. FinCERT of the Russian Central Bank, which predicted increased interest by cybercriminals in .nancial. exchanges in 2017. 
By attacking a .nancial exchange, the Cobalt group can "pump" or "dump" stocks, incentivizing. purchase or sale of shares in certain companies in a way that causes rapid .uctuations in share price.. Stock manipulation can affect not just the welfare of a single company, but the economy of entire countries. These methods were employed by the Corkow group in their 2016 attack on Russia's Energobank, which caused a 15-percent change in the exchange rate of the ruble and caused bank losses of RUB 244 million (over 
USD 
4 
million). 
The remaining 25 percent of targeted companies represent diverse industries: 

Government Telecom/Internet 


Service Providers 

Manufacturing 

Entertainment 

Healthcare 
Since the beginning of 2017, our researchers have studied over 60 unique samples of phishing messages sent as part of Cobalt campaigns. These messages were sent to over 3,000 people in 12 countries. The addresses include corporate addresses but also personal addresses, since employees often can check their email on work computers. 
Notably, Cobalt attacks government organizations and ministries in order to use them as a stepping stone for other targets. 

5. Chronology of Cobalt 2017 campaign 
In early 2017, we noted that the Cobalt group was actively registering illegitimate domains. As soon as these domains were used to send phishing mailings, we noti.ed the security departments of the. targeted companies, as well as the FinCERT of the Russian Central Bank. Thanks to this timely intervention, the domains were blocked before the attackers could make use of them. 
Positive Technologies has investigated incidents related to attacks by the Cobalt group at a number of companies in 2017. In several cases, the attackers compromised company infrastructure and employee accounts in order to send phishing messages to partner companies (i.e., companies that have a legitimate pre-existing business relationship with banks) in North and South America, Europe, CIS countries, and Central and Southeast Asia. Against targets in the CIS countries, the attackers also used their own infrastructure, which included rented dedicated servers located in North America, Europe, and Southeast Asia. 
Several pieces of information suggest that the team responsible for the technical aspects of attacks consists of only a handful of people. When the attackers were at their most active inside target networks, the group would temporarily stop registering domain names and sending phishing mailings. Activity not aimed at the targeted infrastructure was not detected. The days and times of mailings are also suggestive in this regard, as described later in this report. 

6. Cobalt attack methods 
The Cobalt group relies on social engineering to penetrate networks—users open malicious attachments from phishing messages that are disguised by the attackers to resemble messages from legitimate companies and regulatory authorities. These attachments contain a document .le, which. downloads a dropper from a remote server or contains the dropper in a password-protected archive. Small in size, a dropper is used to download and run other malicious software (in the case of Cobalt, the Beacon Trojan). 
Preparations and progression of a typical attack are illustrated below. 
For information on the actions of Cobalt attackers inside the network of a targeted organization, please see 
our 
previous 
report. 
1. Partner phishing 
The Cobalt group's traditional method—sending messages with forged sender information—has fallen out of favor. Instead, the group has paid more attention to making sure that messages get delivered by dodging mail server .lters. . 
For a targeted mailing ("spear phishing"), the criminals use previously registered domains. A domain name is chosen to be similar in meaning and spelling to the domain of the real company. For messages to make it through antispam and antivirus checks, the criminals correctly con.gure SPF. entries on the DNS server and indicate the correct DKIM signatures for their messages. This approach allows bypassing veri.cation of the address of the sender's mail server, but offers digital evidence for. investigators. 
Despite the increased complexity involved, in the .rst quarter of 2017 the Cobalt group also began to. attack various companies that partner with banks, then sending phishing messages from these partners' infrastructures using the hacked accounts and mail servers of real employees. 
This approach ensures that recipients are likely to trust the sender and has a number of advantages: 
1. 
Attackers get information stored on the servers and in the databases of the compromised partner organization. This information can be used to create convincing phishing messages. 

2. 
Attackers obtain access to employee accounts on workstations and mail servers, giving phishing messages a high degree of trust and plausibility among potential recipients. 

3. 
Messages from partners are not blocked by mail server .lters.. 


The attackers carefully choose subject lines, recipient addresses, and attachment names that will ".y below the radar" so that recipients open the attachments enclosed with. phishing messages. 
Today, Cobalt uses phishing mailings at practically all stages of targeted attacks on banks. 
1. Initial compromise starts with one or more workstations at a partner organization, which have been infected via phishing. 
A message informing of "missed payments" 
Instructions for connecting to a payment gateway—supposedly 
2. 
The attack against the partner organization is then developed by means of internal mailings containing malicious documents supposedly from colleagues, management, or IT. 

3. 
Malicious messages are sent from the partner's infrastructure to banks and other .nancial. organizations. 


"Documents requested by the head of the department" A message claiming to inform of payroll changes 
A password-protected archive (with the password "doc") supposedly containing an invoice for ATM maintenance 
In early 2017, 60 percent of phishing messages from Cobalt related to cooperation and service terms between banks and their partners. 
In2017Cobaltbegantousesecurityanxietiesasanattackvector.ThegrouphassentmessagesfromillegitimatedomainsposingasVISA,MasterCard,andFinCERTunitsoftheRussianCentralBankandNationalBankoftheRepublicofKazakhstan.Broken English and copied boilerplate text can be convincing in the right circumstances 
A fake FinCERT message 
In Russia, this was a particularly ironic "twist" since FinCERT had been actively warning .nancial. companies about the Cobalt threat. So the group took advantage of such anxiety to send messages to banks with malicious documents, supposedly on how to keep bank systems safe 
A vague warning that asks the user to act immediately 
So by creating counterfeit domains super.cially similar to those of real companies, the criminals use. the imprimatur of well-known organizations to convince users to open dangerous attachments. 
Since real messages from colleagues and partners usually arrive during working hours, the criminals structured the mailings so that employees would receive them during working hours (no matter in which time zone the attackers themselves were located). 
Mostmessageswerereceivedintheafternoon—thereasonbeingthatemployeestendtobelessvigilant,andthereforemoresusceptibletophishing,astheeveningapproaches.WenoticedaslightvariationintacticsagainstNorthAmericancompanies.MessagestargetingU.S.andCanadianorganizationsweresentfromthecompromisedinfrastructureofaEuropeanpartner.ForthephishingmessagestobeplausiblyEuropeaninorigin,thecriminalsperformedthemailingduringEuropeanworkinghours,duetowhichthetargetsreceivedemailsintheearlywakinghoursintheU.S.andCanada.2.MaliciousattachmentsTo ensure remote access to the workstation of an employee at a target organization, the Cobalt group (as in previous years) uses Beacon, a Trojan available as part of commercial penetration testing software Cobalt Strike. 
The Trojan is delivered and run with the help of a special dropper. The dropper consists of .scr or .exe .les that are placed on the victim's computer in one of the following ways:. 
1. 
In a password-protected ZIP archive, the password to which is given in the text of the phishing message. 

2. 
Downloaded from a hacked website when a malicious attachment (.doc, .xls, .rtf) is opened from the phishing message. 

3. 
Downloaded from a hacked website based on commands coded in a LNK .le that is in a ZIP. archive attached to the message. 


Poorly protected websites are compromised by the attackers and used, in essence, as .le. 
hosts for spreading malicious .les in attacks against banks.. 
52 percent of the Cobalt phishing messages reviewed by our researchers contained Microsoft Word documents. 
The malicious Microsoft Of.ce documents that trigger download of the dropper are created using the. Ancalog and Microsoft Word Intruder (MWI) exploit kits. With these kits, even a hacker without programming skills can create malicious Word documents and PDF .les in an intuitive visual interface. in just minutes. 
The Cobalt group was one of the .rst to get their hands on a restricted version of MWI that can create. documents exploiting the critical vulnerability CVE-2017-0199. Since the version in question was sold on an individual basis to customers well known to the developer, there may be a relationship between the Cobalt group and developer of MWI. One instructive fact in this regard is that less than a week passed between announcement of a new MWI version and use by Cobalt of attachments exploiting vulnerability 
CVE-2017-0199. 
MWI is positioned by its developer as a tool for performing APT attacks; if the software is instead used to create .les for mass spamming, the developer revokes the license. For users of the restricted. version of MWI, the developer offers a sort of "scrubbing" so that .les will not be .agged by currently. available antivirus scanners. 
The MWI developer boasting of the "product" online 
Malicious documents sent by Cobalt to banks and their partners use exploits for vulnerabilities CVE-2017-0199, CVE-2015-1641, and CVE-2012-0158 in order to download and run the dropper on the victim system. 
Anof.cial-seemingdocumentabouthowtopayoverduedebtsWhentheattachmentisopened,maliciouscodeisrun.ThiscodetakesadvantageofvulnerabilitiesinMicrosoftOf.cetodownloadthedropperfromaremoteserverandrunit.Afterthecode.nishesrunning,adecoydocument(suchasshowninthescreenshot)isdisplayed.Theattackersupload.lestovulnerablesitesinadvance,fromwherethe.lescanbelaterdownloaded
to victim systems during an attack. Therefore we urge website owners to be vigilant in securing their sites: if weak protections cause a site to become a staging ground for malware, regulators may block the site or law enforcement may seize server equipment as part of a criminal investigation. Public knowledge of such incidents is likely to cause severe damage to company reputation. 
Usually Cobalt phishing messages are sent in several waves. In the .rst wave, the criminals send. Microsoft Of.ce documents created using the described exploit kits.. 
If there are no "hits" from targeted users within 24 hours of a mailing (this is possible if a company has up-to-date versions of Microsoft Of.ce that are free of the vulnerabilities targeted by the exploit. builders), the attackers send a second wave. 
Attached to the messages is a dropper, consisting of .exe or .scr executable .les, in a password-. protected archive. By placing the .les in an archive, the attackers can bypass some .ltering and. antivirus systems. Solutions are available for real-time scanning of encrypted archives (when the password is indicated in the body of the message, as is the case here) but organizations making use of such software are few and far between. 
In addition, we have observed a separate mailing in which the attached archives contained LNK .les;. as in all the other cases, these .les are used to download the Beacon dropper. . 
3. Cobalt infrastructure 
Since a Cobalt mailing is sent to thousands of recipients, the group clearly is using some sort of automation. Based on analysis of the phishing messages, we believe that the messages are sent from phishing domains with the help of alexusMailer 
v2.0, a freely available PHP script used to send emails anonymously. 
alexusMailer and other scripts are available on forums 
The script includes support for multithreaded sending, a visual editor for messages, import of recipient lists and other .elds from .les, templates, attaching any number of .les to a message, and more.. Users can distribute sending tasks over a number of servers and set a delay for message sending. 
alexusMailer interface 
However, when messages are sent with alexusMailer, the message header contains an artifact: the X­PHP-Originating-Script .eld contains the name of the .le of the PHP script that was used to send the. messages. This means that on servers used for sending, the php.ini con.guration .le is set to log. outgoing mail. 
The Cobalt group uses widely availably public mail services, as well as services that allow anonymous registration of temporary addresses. Some of the domains used for reply addresses in Cobalt mailings include: TempMail (@doanart.com, @rootfest.net), Mail.com (@mail.com), AT&T Mail (@att.net, @sbcglobal.net), and Yahoo! (@ymail.com). These same services were used by Cobalt to create email addresses when registering domains. 
Based on the times at which the domains in the Cobalt infrastructure were registered, we found that the attackers tended to register domains towards the beginning of the week. This enables us to speculate on their working schedule: 
- On weekdays, the attackers actively register domains, prepare hacking tools, and (less 
often) send phishing mailings. 
- At the end of the week, the group concentrates on sending out mailings and advancing their attacks within the infrastructure of compromised organizations. 
- Since phishing mailings are sent out during working hours, domains are usually registered during the interval from 6:00 PM to 12:00 AM (UTC+0), which coincides with the end of the working day in European countries. 
It would seem that after registering a domain at the beginning of the week, the Cobalt group takes some time to prepare for their upcoming phishing campaign, which as noted usually comes at the end of the week. On average, the time from domain registration to the .rst phishing mailing with that same. domain is four days. 
Our researchers discovered a number of Cobalt phishing domains before the group was able to use them in its phishing campaigns. By acting quickly, it was possible to block the domains. 
Working in cooperation with industry regulators in Russia and other countries, we have succeeded in disabling delegation for all .ru domains and most other top-level domains known to be associated with Cobalt. 
7. Conclusion 
The barrier to entry for would-be cybercriminals keeps falling every year. No longer do hackers need to look for zero-day vulnerabilities and expensive tools to perform attacks. Instead, all they require are basic programming skills, commercially available software, and instructions posted on the Internet. 
Banks and other companies must realize that attackers are constantly re.ning the tools and. techniques they use. In today's environment, a company can fall victim just by getting caught in the middle as attackers scout for stepping stones to reach their ultimate target. That's why responsible companies can no longer remain complacent about security and pretend that hackers go after only large companies and banks, or target only far-away areas of the world. No matter their industry or ownership—whether banks, state-owned organizations, or whatever else—companies must keep protection of their digital infrastructure current and proactively update their software and operating systems. Employees must be trained to increase their security awareness and resist phishing attempts. Moreover, scanning should go beyond just incoming messages and attachments to include outgoing messages, with retrospective analysis. Public-facing web applications must also be protected —if company infrastructure or sites are compromised by an attacker, this can wound company reputation, cause blocking of company servers, trigger a drop in search engine ratings, and drive away customers. 
Information about the extent of losses caused by the Cobalt group in 2017 is not yet available. Perhaps warnings by bank regulators headed off some of the group's efforts. We will continue to monitor the Cobalt group and report new details as they become available. Judging by the scale of Cobalt campaigns worldwide, multimillion-dollar losses by banks are a real possibility. And if attacks on .nancial exchanges are successful, the consequences will include not only direct losses to individual. companies, but rate turbulence on world currency markets. 
AuthorPositiveResearchat1:00AMTagsCobalt,hacks,researchNo comments: Post a Comment 

Subscribe to: Post 
Comments 
(Atom) 




